%START Folder=Tutorials Topic=Welcome
Welcome to Ameol!

Ameol is an all-in-one off-line reader for your internet news, mail and
CIX Forums messages.  As it is an off-line reader you can read and
compose messages without being connected to your dial-up service provider 
or on-line service, so saving time and money. Ameol can be used with an 
internet account to read usenet news and mail and also to read CIX 
Forums messages.

This is a brief tutorial for people who are new to off-line readers and
will help you get started. For more detailed instructions and help please 
see the Ameol help file by selecting the Help menu, Contents item (in 
short form, Help|Contents).

Each news, mail and CIX Forums message is displayed on your screen
individually, just like the message you are reading now. To go to the next 
message, press the Return key.

Press Return now.
%END

%START
Read and Unread messages

This is the second message which you probably reached by pressing Return
after reading message number 1. Ameol keeps track of the messages you
have read and those you haven't yet read and displays this information in
the Thread Window. The Thread Window is above the status bar (the line
that has the date, time and other message information on it) and you can
see there is a letterbox icon next to message 2 - this shows that Ameol
knows this message hasn't been read yet. If you look up to message 1 you
will see there is no letterbox icon next to it - Ameol knows that you
have read that message.

Press Return to go to the next message.
%END

%START
Moving up and down messages

If a message is quite long and can not fit in the message viewer window
(the window you are reading this message in now) then scroll bars will be
displayed on the right hand side of the window. To carry on reading more
of the message that isn't currently in view, press the Page Down key.

Press the Page Down key now.




















Press Page Down again


















This is the bottom of the message which you reached by pressing the
Page Down Key. If you want to scroll back up again press the Page Up key
until you see the beginning of the message. You can also re-size the
message window so you can see more of a message without using the page up
and page down keys. To do this just move your mouse pointer over any edge
of the window until the pointer changes to one with an arrow at each end.
Then holding down the left mouse button, move the mouse and you will see
the window change size. Let go of the mouse button when the window is the
size you want it to be. This method works for nearly all Ameol windows.

This is the end of this message - press Return to go to the next message.
%END

%START
Going to a previous message

If you want to go back to the last message to you read for another look
at it just press the Backspace key. This will always take you to the last
message you read. Try it now, Ameol will go back to message 3. Press
Return to come back to this message.

Back again?

The Backspace key can be used many times in succession, so if you want to
go back to a message you read five messages ago, you would press
Backspace five times.

Press Return to go to the next message.
%END
---

%START Comment
Threading

Ameol is a threaded message reader. This means that when people reply to
mail (or follow-up to a usenet message, or comment to a CIX Forums
message) Ameol will show you that the second message is related to the
first one. For example, the message you are reading now is a comment to
message number 4. This is shown in two ways

- the status bar says "Comment to message 4"
- in the graphical Thread Window

The Thread Window shows you the message number, author and the first line
of the message. It also has a graphic display of the threads - message 4
(which is called a "Root message" as it is not a comment to any other
message) is displayed in bold type and has a brown folder icon next to
it. The current message (message 5, which you are reading now) is
displayed in normal type.

Usenet and CIX Forums messages threads can be very complicated, the graphical
thread window lets you see at a glance which message is a comment to which
other message. Occasionally you will see a message in the thread window that
is in bold type but which has two dots on the left of it, like this:

.. 187  sp  I posted a message yesterday.

This means the message is a comment but you do not have the original
message in your database.


Remember to press Return to go to the next message.
%END

%START
The In Basket

On the left hand side of the Ameol window you can see a window that is
titled "In Basket" (if you cannot see this window select the View menu
and choose the In Basket item). The In Basket lists all the newsgroups
you have read in Ameol, any mail folders or topics you have created and
any CIX forums or topics you have read in Ameol.

If this is the first time you have used Ameol you will probably only
have a few News and Mail folders, plus the current folder (that contains
the messages you are reading now). The current folder is highlighted in
the In Basket and as you change topics by reading messages the highlight
also moves to show you which topic you are in.

Lets try moving to another folder. Make a note of the current highlighted
topic, then double-click on the Mail/Messages folder. You will be in the
Messages topic of the Mail folder (the topic itself will probably be
empty). To come back to this topic double-click the name that you noted
down earlier, in the In Basket.
%END

%START
Creating messages

Let's create our first message.

Select Mail|New Message. A New Mail Message window will open, re-size it
so you can still see this message using the window re-size method
described earlier. The Mail Message window has a number of boxes, but you
don't have to fill all of them in.

In the box next to To: type in your own e-mail address. If you are not
sure what this is, copy the e-mail address in the Reply-To field to the
To: box.

In the box next to Subject: type "Test E-mail".

Then type anything you like in the lower blank area (this is called an
Edit Window). When you have finished typing your message press the Save
key. You have now created your first e-mail message! However as Ameol is
an off-line reader your message has not been sent yet, it will be sent
when you next connect to your internet provider or to CIX Forums. This
means you can perform many different actions on the message before it is
sent, this is done from the Out Basket and it is this that we will cover
in the next message.

You can create new News and CIX Forums messages by selecting
News|Post Article and Message|Say respectively. To make a Comment to a
message select Mail|Reply to Message, News|Follow Up Article or
Message|Comment depending on whether the message is a Mail, News or
CIX Forums message. You should always use the Comment command when
you are replying to a message by someone else so everyone can see that
the two messages relate to each other.
%END

%START
The Out Basket

To open the Out Basket, select View|Out Basket.

The Out Basket is the storage area for any messages you post, any file
downloads or uploads you decide to do.. in fact any actions relating to
files or messages that you do within Ameol. While an item is in the Out
Basket you can review it, edit it, delete it, Keep it (so it is executed
every time you connect) or Hold it (so it stays in the Out Basket but is
not executed).

If you followed the method above for creating a new mail message then
that message will be in your Out Basket now. You can edit it by
highlighting the message in the Out Basket and clicking the Edit button
on the Out Basket window (not the Edit menu at the top of the Ameol
window). You will see your mail message open in an editor again - here
you can change any of the details you entered before. You can change the
text of the message, the Subject: or who the message was addressed To:.
When you have finished editing the message, click Save again and your
newly edited message will return to the Out Basket. It will stay there
until you connect to your internet provider or to CIX Forums.
%END

%START
Connecting

Connecting ("Blinking") with Ameol is very simple. To connect to either
your internet provider or to CIX Forums just click the Blink button
on the toolbar (on the left with the telephone picture) or select File|Send
& Receive All.

Ameol will then send any messages that were in your Out Basket, then
collect any new messages waiting for you. At the end of the blink Ameol
will disconnect.

As it is an off-line reader you can read and compose messages without 
being connected to your on-line service, so saving time and money.
%END
