%START Topic=Support
Support for Ameol - what help is available?

If you have a problem or question about Ameol there are various
resources which may help.

1. _The Help file_

Ameol has a full online Help file. Most dialogs include a Help button
which, when selected, will load the Help file at the correct place. Many 
of the Help pages are "hotspot" images, which means you can click on the
Help page to see more information about the dialog.

You can also search the Help file by selecting Help|Search for Help on..
within Ameol. Enter the word or phrase that you wish to get help with
and the nearest match(es) in the Ameol Help file will be displayed.

If you select the Help file contents page (Help|Contents within Ameol)
you will have access to these sections of the Help file:

Reading Messages
Writing Messages
Connecting
Settings
Reference
Ameol v2 Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
Glossary

Although the help file is now a little out of date in some places 
information about the more recent functions and changes can usually be 
found in Help | What's New?


2. _CIX Forums_

Online support for Ameol is mainly done via the CIX Forums system.
The topic for Ameol support is called cix.support/ameol or the 
latest version of that topic cix.support/1ameol, cix.support/2ameol, 
cix.support/3ameol etc, you can join this forum on your next 
connection by clicking this forum link -> cix:cix.support. You may 
find that someone else has already asked the question you want to ask and 
it has been answered in the cix:cix.support/ameol.faq topic.

Support in the cix.support forum is performed by the CIX support 
staff. This is a small team of people who are employed by CIX Online
and have a wide knowledge of Ameol, CIX and the Internet. They also have 
access to the Ameol Development team in case there are any questions they 
are unable to answer. 

Support for the CIX system itself is performed in the
cix.support/support  topic - click here -> cix:cix.support to join the
forum.

If none of these resources has helped answer your support question CIX
offers various methods of obtaining support. These methods are described
in the next message.

3. _CIX Forums_

Online support for Ameol is mainly done via the CIX Forums system.
The forum for Ameol support is called ameol.support, and you can
join this forum on your next connection by clicking this forum
link -> cix:ameol.support. You may find that someone else has already
asked the question you want to ask and it has been answered in the
cix:ameol.support/faq topic.

Support in the ameol.support forum is performed by the Ameol
Moderators. This is a small team of people who are not employed by CIX
but have a wide knowledge of Ameol, CIX and the internet. They also have
access to the Ameol Development team in case there are any questions they
are unable to answer. Ameol Moderators can be identified by the (Ameol
moderator) line at the end of their messages.

Support for the CIX system itself is performed by CIX staff in the
cix.support forum - click here -> cix:cix.support to join the
forum.

If none of these resources has helped answer your support question CIX
offers various methods of obtaining support. These methods are described
in the next message.

%END
%START
Support for Ameol - how to get support

CIX Online offers support for Ameol in a several ways.

1. _Via CIX Forums_

This is the preferred method. Select Help|Submit Report, choose the
nature and importance of the message, fill in the title then enter your
message. Details of the versions of Ameol and Windows you are using will 
be included automatically. Click on Save and the report will be saved in 
your out basket. When you next connect your message will be posted to the 
appropriate forum and will be answered by one of the support staff or 
possibly by another forum member. Select View|Next Unread Priority to 
see your message and any replies to it. It may be up to 24 hours before 
you have a reply (though it is usually much faster) and there is no need 
to post "reminder" messages - all messages will be answered.


2. _Via email_

CIX has an email address for all Ameol support questions - 
mailto:support@cixonline.com.
To send an email to the support department click on the email link above 
or select Mail|New Message, enter
support@cixonline.com in the To: box, enter a subject, then type your
message. Please remember to include details of the version of Ameol you
are using (use Help|About Ameol to find this out), your operating system 
(Windows 2000, Windows XP, Windows Vista, or something else) and
a precise description of the problem, including any steps to reproduce if 
appropriate. When you have finished your message click the Save button.  
The message will be mailed to the support department when you next connect.

Only support questions should be mailed to support@cixonline.com - if you 
have a general question about CIX services or a billing query contact 
accounts@cixonline.com.  If you have an old CIX ICA account with Pipex you 
will be advised of the correct contact details.  These are also posted in 
the cix:cixnews/hotlinks topic.


3. _Via telephone_

CIX Online do not offer a telephone support service for Ameol.


4. _Via the web_

You can send a message to support from the CIX website via the following 
link http://cixonline.com/support.asp

There are also many of our FAQs available on this website to help you 
resolve the most common queries.

%END

