%START Folder=Tutorials Topic=Rules
Introduction to Rules

Ameol provides a powerful rules engine that allows you to
mark or move messages as they are being imported.

For example, you can set up a rule so that all mail messages from
a certain person is moved to another mailbox. You could set up a
rule so that messages from another person are automatically
deleted.

Rules work on topics, folders or even the entire database.
%END
%START
Redirecting Incoming Mail From a User

Ameol provides a quick way to create a rule that directs mail
from a certain person to another folder.

1. Locate an e-mail from that person.
2. Choose the Sort Mail From command from the Mail menu, or press 'Q'.
3. You can either sort the mail into an existing mailbox or create a
   new mailbox and sort the mail into that. Choose the appropriate
   option.
4. Disable the 'Move other messages from this user to the specified
   folder' checkbox if you only want to move this one mail message. If
   this option is left checked, Ameol will scan back through the whole
   mail mailbox looking for other e-mail from the user and move them to
   the new mailbox.
5. Click OK to move the e-mail.

Once you have completed this command, all subsequent e-mail from this
user will be redirected to the new mailbox. To have a look at the rule
that was created, choose Rules from the Settings menu and click the
Edit button in the Rule Manager dialog.
%END
%START
Redirecting Incoming Mail

If you have your own domain name you can set up many different aliases for 
your domain. For example, if your domain name is:

      example.co.uk

you can set up email aliases such as:

      personal@example.co.uk
      fromjane@example.co.uk
      postmaster@example.co.uk

By default, mail collected from your POP3 mailbox for any of the above 
e-mail addresses will go into the Messages mailbox. To redirect them to 
individual mailboxes based on the alias, follow the steps below:

1. Locate an e-mail to the alias you want to redirect.
2. Choose the Sort Mail To command from the Mail menu.
3. You can either sort the mail into an existing mailbox or create a
   new mailbox and sort the mail into that. Choose the appropriate
   option.
4. Disable the 'Move other messages from this user to the specified
   folder' checkbox if you only want to move this one mail message. If
   this option is left checked, Ameol will scan back through the whole
   mail mailbox looking for other e-mail to that account and move them to
   the new mailbox.
5. Click OK to move the e-mail.

Once you have completed this command, all subsequent e-mail to this
alias will be redirected to the new mailbox. To have a look at the rule
that was created, choose Rules from the Settings menu and click the
Edit button in the Rule Manager dialog.
%END
%START
Using Rules To Delete Messages From A User

If you want to delete messages from a particular user in a particular
forum:

1. Choose Rules from the Settings menu.
2. Select the forum from the list of folders in the Rules Manager
   dialog.
3. Click the New button.
4. In the Edit Rule dialog, enter the CIX Forums nickname of the
   person in the From field.
5. Uncheck the 'Mark message for priority attention' box and check the
   'Delete the message' box.
6. Click OK to save the new rule.
7. Click OK to close the Rules Manager dialog.

Now when Ameol adds new messages to that forum, it will check to
see if the author is the person quoted in the rule and, if so, delete
the message. The message will not even be saved in your messagebase.
%END
%START
Creating New Rules Manually

When you choose the Rules command from the Settings menu and click the New
button to create a new rule, Ameol provides a great deal of flexibility in
specifying the matching strings. The matching strings are what Ameol looks
for in every new message checked against the rules you've set up.

The following messages give some background about how to specify rules in
the Edit Rule dialog box.
%END
%START
Rules Use the AND Logic

There are inputs for four fields in the match portion of Edit Rule dialog. 
If you enter a matching string into more than one of the fields, then 
Ameol expects a message to match ALL the fields before the rule is 
considered successful.

Thus if you set up a rule as follows:

         From:    test@example.co.uk
         Subject: Ameol

Then it will only match if the message is from test@example.co.uk AND the 
word Ameol appears in the Subject field.
%END
%START
Rules Are Not Case Sensitive

It is important to realise that Ameol disregards case when matching a rule.
So a rule set up to match Junk in the Subject field will match all of the
following:

     This is a junk message
     Warning! Junk E-Mail!
     This is the JUNK MAILER list

Also, Ameol does not restrict matching complete words. So if the matching
string appears inside a word, it will match. The following subject fields
will all match a rule that looks for the string '4020' in the Subject.

          HP i4020 printer problems
          Re: GPF in address 80040206A
%END
%START
How To Specify A Rule To or From A Person

For the From and To field, you can specify either a username or a
fully-qualified e-mail address. A username is the name to the LEFT of any 
'@' symbol in an e-mail address. The qualified address is a persons FULL 
e-mail address including their domain.

               Username: test
      Qualified Address: test@example.co.uk

If you specify a username only, then mail to that username from ANY domain 
will match. Given the above example, mail from or to any of the following 
will match a username of test:

               test@example.co.uk
               test@cix.co.uk
               test@another.domain.co.uk
               test@msn.com

The following will NOT match:

               test_again@cix.co.uk
               my_test@msn.com

If you specify a fully qualified address, then only mail from or to that 
address will match. In the examples given above, only mail from or to 
test@example.co.uk will match.

To match ANY user within a particular domain, specify the domain:

               @example.co.uk

If you specify this in the From or To field, then e-mail to or from any of 
the following will match the rule:

               test@example.co.uk
               hurray@example.co.uk
               i_am_a_duck@example.co.uk
%END
