%START Topic=Usenet
Joining a Usenet newsgroup

To join a Usenet newsgroup, choose Subscribe from the News menu and in
the Subscribe dialog, enter the name of the newsgroup.

Ameol permits you to just download the headers of news articles or the
entire article. Because Usenet news is a vast collection of usually quite
long articles, downloading the entire articles can take a long time and
make for an expensive download. So you have the option of only retrieving
the headers which will give you basic information about the rest of the
article. If you think an article is interesting, you can Tag it so that
next time you connect, Ameol will retrieve the full article.
%END
%START
Resigning from a Usenet newsgroup

To resign a Usenet newsgroup, choose the Unsubscribe command from the News
menu. If the newsgroup was on the CIX news server, Ameol places a resign
command in the Out Basket to instruct CIX Usenet to explicitly resign the
newsgroup for you. If the newsgroup was from an internet news server then
Ameol simply stops collecting articles from that newsgroup.

You can rejoin a resigning newsgroup by resubscribing to it.
%END
%START
Tagging articles

By default, Ameol only downloads the headers of Usenet articles unless
you have explicitly asked it to download the full article. To obtain the
full article given the header, you need to Tag it for collection. Choose
the Tag command from the Message menu and the article will be marked as
tagged.

Not all tagged articles can be retrieved. Many news servers 'expire'
articles after a period of time and expired articles cannot be retrieved.
Ameol will tell you if an article could not be retrieved because it was
expired.
%END
%START
Watching interesting threads

Sometimes you might spot a message which you find interesting and you
would like to retrieve the full articles for any comments to that
message. Ameol allows you to 'watch' a thread so that the full article
for any comments to a watched thread are automatically retrieved.

To watch a thread, choose the Watch command from the Message menu. A
little icon appears next to messages in watched threads.
%END
%START
Decoding attachments in binary newsgroups

Ameol supports decoding of encoded attachments in messages posted to
binary newsgroups. Both Uuencoding and Mime/base64 decoding are
supported.

If you come across a message which contains an attachment, choose Decode
Binary Attachment from the Message menu and Ameol will create the
decoded file in your Attach subdirectory. An icon representing the
decoded file will also appear at the beginning of the message, replacing
the encoded information. You can click the icon to open the attachment.

Ameol always warns before you open attachments as there is the
possibility that the attachment may be a rogue program or a virus. So
take care and do NOT run any program that you do not know to be safe.
%END
