.topic 1068


Message reading is done from the Message Window. While reading messages in the message window you can perform various actions on the messages by selecting an item from the Message Menu (but you may find it quicker to use the Keyboard Shortcuts). You can always go to the next unread message by pressing the Return key.

The list of CIX Conferencing conferences, Usenet groups and mail topics you belong to are listed in the In Basket. To change to a different folder just double-click the name of the folder to open. While the In Basket is selected the Folder Menu is available, from where you can check the Folder Properties, Resign Topics, run Purge to delete unwanted messages, and so on.

.topic 1069

To create a new mail message select New Message from the Mail menu. To reply to a mail message select Reply or Reply to All from the same menu.

To create a new conference message (a "Say") or to reply to a conference message (a "Comment") select either of those options from the Message menu.

To create new news messages select Post Article or Follow Up Article from the News menu.

.topic 1071

Connections are made by selecting one of the options from the Connect item on the File menu. The most common blink is Full (collects and posts mail, news and conference messages) - start one of these blinks by


·		selecting Full from the Connect sub-menu on the File menu

·		clicking on the black telephone on the Toolbar

·		pressing Control-T (also see the keyboard shortcuts section)

You can change how connections are made and what happens during a connection from the Communications tab pages.

.topic 1072

All of the settings within Ameol are done from the Settings Menu. Here you can choose how to connect, enter your mail details, your CIX details, the directories Ameol will use and so on. The Settings help pages make extensive use of Hot Spot images so click anywhere on the example screens for more information. If you don't know where a setting is, try using the Search button at the top of this page.

.topic 1073

You can change the behaviour of Ameol by starting the program with some Command Line Switches.

To automate certain tasks within Ameol when using the CIX Conferencing using the Ameol Script Language.

Some actions within Ameol are more easily performed using Keyboard Shortcuts.

.topic 1222

Here are the Top 20 Frequently Asked Questions about Ameol:


1. How do I get rid of the logo on each topic on the in-basket?

Select this from your menu - Settings | Preferences | Viewer | Display and make sure that "Show folder type in In Basket" is not selected.


2. Where has the Utilities menu gone - I can't find my addons?

Addons are now embedded into the Ameol menu system. If an addon deals with mail, for example, you'll find a menu item for it under the Mail menu dropdown.


3. I can't find CIXBill, though I know it's loaded.

You'll find it in the File menu - listed as CIX Billing. Make sure that the version of CIXBill you have is at least version 3.


4. Why is ShowConf on the Settings menu?

That's the way it was written by the author.


5. What do the three symbols next to the signature box on the Mail Message window actually do?

The red "up" triangle raises the priority of your mail. The black "down" triangle lowers the priority of your mail.
Some email programs handle prioritised mail differently - for example, displaying high priority mail first.

The CC button is selected (turned on/pushed in) by default. This will make Ameol send a copy of the mail back to yourself. This is useful as confirmation that your mail was actually sent. Turning this off is not a good idea unless you don't care about tracking your mail.


6. Where has the terminal window gone?

You need to make sure this is turned on if you want to see it. It's turned on as default, but perhaps you've disabled it by accident - re-enable it. Do this by selecting Settings | Conferencing... and making sure you have selected the option Display terminal window while blinking to CIX.


7. Why doesn't the toolbar float any more?
Ameol was written using newer display controls, which although allow the program to do much more, does not allow a floating toolbar.


8. I've closed my in/out basket and it's gone! (not on Window menu)

If you want your basket back, select View, and then select In Basket or Out Basket - the window will reappear.


9. I installed Ameol for CIX Conferencing only, how do I add Internet options?

You'll need to click on the Ameol Setup icon in your CIX Software Program Manager
or Start Menu group and enter your account details.


10. What do the username/realname things mean in the install wizard?

Your username relates to your hostname, so use that. Your realname is just that - your real name (e.g. Paul Wakeford, or
Graham Freeman). The real name is displayed in header of your emails and your Usenet postings.


11. How do I add a spacer between toolbar buttons?

Select Settings | Toolbar. Now move the button to the right of where you want the space to be, to the right. Move it about one third of it's width. You'll see a space appear between the two buttons.


12. Do I have to have an Internet account to use Ameol?

No, but you'll not be using all the facilities of Ameol if you don't. For more information on how an Internet account can benefit you, please mail sales@cix.co.uk


13. The meaning of Reply-To: on the mail form

When you send mail, the recipient will need to know where to send their reply. The "Reply-To:" field contains the address to which their email will be sent if they wish to reply to your mails. It's generally a good idea to set this to the email address you give out to people as your own.


14. I only want to pick up my CIX Conferencing messages, what do I do?

Select File | Connect | Conferencing Only...

You can put a button on the toolbar for this by selecting Settings | Toolbar | Blinks.


15. I want to filter incoming email, what do I do?

Display one of the messages that you wish to base your sort criteria on, and then from the menu select Mail. In the dropdown list, you'll see Sort Mail From and Sort Mail To ... Select the one you wish to base your filter on, and then choose the folder into which the mail should be filtered.


16. I want my mail from CIX Internet but news from another provider, what do I do?

When you subscribe to a new newsgroup by selecting News | Subscribe, you need to type in the name of the group. Notice at the bottom of this box is the name of the news server to get the news from. The default is from CIX Internet, but you can select another server. If your preferred server isn't in the list, add it by clicking the New Server button and filing in the details for it.


17. How do I password protect my Ameol database?

Select the Users item on the Settings menu. Highlight the name of the user to which password protection will be applied. Click the Edit button and enter the password into the Password box.


18. What Ameol addons are there and how do I configure them?

There is a full list of addons available from the ameolnews conference. This list is being added to all the time, but at the time of writing it includes:

CIXBill  - Gets billing information
ShowConf - Displays conference info (including the moderators of closed conferences).
TopicInf - Displays information about who posts in topics.
GetMM    - Grabs missing messages from CIX Conferencing, to fill any holes.
Moderate - Allows you to run your own conference.
AMEdit   - Access your connect log/profile, from within Ameol.
OBRec    - Recovers your outbasket in the event of a failed connect.
IOBask   - Holds details of your mail stored on CIX Conferencing.
Acronyms - Decodes those pesky acronyms.

The addons can be configured by selecting them from the menu bar.


19. What's the best way to report a problem?

Click Help | Submit Problem Report. This will ask you a few questions about your problem and then send the report to us in the manner most suitable for your installation.


20. How to I order the folders in the In Basket?

 Imagine your In Basket (the big "proper" one, not the small one attached to the message window) is like this:

- folder 1
 \topic
 \topic
 \topic

- folder 2
 \topic

- folder 3
 \topic
 \topic

- folder 4
 \topic


Now you want to move folder 4 so it is between folder 2 and folder 3.

Pick up folder 4 with your mouse and drop it on folder 2, *not* on folder 3 or on the topic(s) between folders 2 and 3. When dragging and dropping folders the folder will always end up underneath the folder you drop onto. If you try to drop a folder onto a topic you will be told that this is not possible.


.topic 1074


A glossary of terms used in this help file.

Addon
Address Book
Append
Archive
Association
Attachments
Baud
Binmail
Blink
Bookmark
Check
Check And Repair
Collapsed
Comment
Compuserve
Conference
Connect
Connect Log
Custom Dictionary
Dial Up Networking
Directory
Download
E-mail
Event Log
Expanded
Export
FAQ
Fax
Fax Address Book
File List
File Transfer Protocol (FTP)
Find
Fixed Pitch Font
Header
Hot Links
Ignore
Import
In Basket
Initialise
Insert File
Internet
Join
Keystroke
Local Topic
Login
Mark
Modem
Moderate Addon
Moderator
Newsgroup
Newsgroup Article
Nickname
Off-Line Reader
On-line
Original
Out Basket
Participant
Password
Pointer
Priority
Profile
Purge
Quote
Read
Remote Access Services
Repair
Repair Log
Reply
Resign
Resume
Scratchpad
Script
Search
Send
Signature
Spell Checker
Status Bar
Subscribe
Telnet
Terminal
Thread
Timeout
Toolbar
Topic
Tree View
Unread
Upload
Usenet
Usenet Article
Users
UIDL
Withdraw
Wrap



.topic 1231

You can contact us in the following ways:

Support

Email support@cix.co.uk

Telephone 020 8255 5151 (London) or 0845 355 5151 (Local call nationwide)

Fax 020 8255 5101


Sales

Email sales@cix.co.uk

Telephone 020 8255 5050 (London) or 0845 355 5050 (Local call nationwide)

Fax 020 8255 5101


Administration

Email admin@cix.co.uk

Telephone 020 8255 5000

Fax 020 8255 5101

.topic 1000
Menus

.topic 4

This menu gives access to the following general commands:



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

#

.topic 3

This menu contains the standard windows edit commands such a Copy and Paste which apply to creating and editing messages.  There are also functions specific to Ameol such as Quote Message and Rot13.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

Mail Menu
[[[ENDKEEPN]]]

.topic 7

This menu contains commands that are specific to mail messages. It also give access to the Ameol address book and, if you are using CIX Conferencing, your Mail Directory on the CIX Conferencing system.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

Conf Menu
[[[ENDKEEPN]]]

.topic 2

This menu gives access to a number of functions specific to CIX Conferencing.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.




.topic 9

This menu contains a number of commands that relate directly to Newsgroup articles as opposed to other types of messages.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

.topic 11

This menu contains commands that affect what Ameol displays. Things such as the In Basket and Out Basket can be hidden from here.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.
Folder Menu
[[[ENDKEEPN]]]

.topic 5

This menu contains commands that are used to create, edit and maintain the folders that are present in the In Basket.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

.topic 8

This menu contains commands used to interact with the Ameol message database and to post messages to Newsgroups or CIX Conferences.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.
Settings Menu
[[[ENDKEEPN]]]

.topic 10

This menu contains commands for setting up Ameol, setting preferences and configuring how Ameol works.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.
Window Menu
[[[ENDKEEPN]]]

.topic 12

This menu allows you to switch between the various windows that Ameol displays and also affect how they are displayed. You can also open a new instance of the Message Window from here.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

.topic 6

This menu gives access to the help files supplied with Ameol and also those that are supplied with any of the Addons that you have installed with Ameol.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

.topic 1001


.topic 1219

As with all our other products, there are no "Gang Screens" or "Easter Eggs" within Ameol.

;-)

.topic 6166

(Route : Help Menu, About Ameol Command)

The About Ameol dialog box shows details about Ameol.



At the top of the dialog the version of Ameol is shown (i.e. 2.x).

The bottom of the dialog gives the registration details of the Ameol installation. These were set when Ameol was first installed and can only be changed by re-installing Ameol.

Click OK to close the dialog.

.topic 6342

(Route : Conf Menu, Participants Command, Moderators Tab Page, Add Button)

The Add Moderator dialog box allows you to add another user of the CIX Conferencing system to list of moderators for this conference.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


The Add Moderator dialog box allows you to add another user of the CIX Conferencing system to list of moderators for this conference. Please note that you can only add or remove moderators if you are yourself a moderator of the conference.

To add a moderator, enter the CIX Conferencing nickname of the user you wish to add in the Name field. Now click the Add button to add their name to the list of moderators to be added. You can remove a potential moderator from this list by highlighting the name and clicking the Remove button. When you have finished adding moderators to the list, click OK. The new moderators will be added when Ameol next connects to CIX Conferencing.

.topic 6325

(Route : Conf Menu, Participants Command, Participants Tab Page, Add Button)

The Add Participants dialog box allows you to add another user of the CIX Conferencing system to list of participants for this conference.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


Please note that you can only add or remove participants if you are a moderator of the conference.

To add a participant, enter the CIX Conferencing nickname of the user you wish to add in the Name field. Now click the Add button to add their name to the list of participants to be added. You can remove a potential participant from this list by highlighting the name and clicking the Remove button. When you have finished adding participants to the list, click OK. The new participants will be added when Ameol next connects to CIX Conferencing.

.topic 7006

(Route : Mail Menu, Address Book Command, Edit or New Buttons, Add button)

This dialog allows you to enter addresses into the selected address book group.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


Select the addresses you would like to enter into the current group. To select a range of addresses hold down the Control or Shift keys before selecting entries. Click OK when you have highlighted all the entries you would like to add to the address book group.


.topic 6544

(Route : Settings Menu, Users Command, Add Button)

The Add User dialog box enables you to set up new user accounts that can be used with Ameol.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


Different user accounts can have entirely different settings as well as permissions, so you could set up a different user account to make Ameol use a different CIX Conferencing account, for example.

To set up a new user account, enter a Login Name and a Password. You can also enter a Directory for the data files created by this account to be stored in. If you do not enter a directory path here, Ameol will set one up for you.

Now choose the Permissions that this user account will have. When you have finished click the Add button. Then next time you start Ameol you will see a login screen. Enter the Login name and password for your new user account. As this will be the first time you have used Ameol with this account, you will be taken through the Setup Wizard so that you can specify the on-line services that you wish Ameol to use.

.topic 6523

(Route : Settings Menu, Install Addons Command)

The Addons dialog box shows the Ameol addon programs that you currently have installed.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


You can also add new addon programs by clicking the Add button, remove the highlighted addon by clicking the Remove button and see information about the highlighted addon by clicking the Info button.

.topic 7000

(Route: Mail Menu, Address Book Command)

The Address Book dialog shows you the contents of the Ameol address book.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


The Address Book list shows the address book groups (in bold) and individual entries.

You can add a new group to the Address Book by clicking the New Group button or a new entry by clicking the New Entry button.

The Edit button will allow you to change the details of the currently highlighted entry. If you have a group highlighted, however, you will be able to alter the name for the highlighted folder.

You can mail a group or individual address by highlighting it and clicking the Mail button.

The resumes for individual addresses can be displayed or downloaded by highlighting the address and clicking the Resume button. You can only collect resumes for CIX Conferencing users.

Addresses must be in the address book before they can be added to a group. So to add a new address to a group, you must first create the address entry, then you can add that entry to an address book group.

You can change the sort order of the entries by clicking on the column headers. An indicator will appear in the column by which the data is being sorted. In the example above the entries are in ascending name order.

.topic 7001

(Route : Mail Menu, New Message Command, To, CC or BCC buttons)

The Address Book selection dialog box allows you to add addresses from the Address Book to the To:, CC: and BCC: fields of a mail message.




Simply select the name of the person or group to whom you would like to send the e-mail message from the Address Book list and click one of the Add> buttons to add that entry to the To:, CC: or BCC: fields.

You can remove an entry from a field by highlighting it in the right-hand box and clicking the <Remove button.

.topic 6660

(Route : Right click on a 'Blink' button in the toolbar, Choose Button from the Pop-Up Menu)

The Button Bitmap dialog box allows you to choose a bitmap to use for any 'Blink' button.



These can be any of the pre-configured Blink items or custom Blink items that you have created.

To choose a button, click on the bitmap that you'd like and then click the OK button.

.topic 6400

(Route : Edit Menu, Check Spelling Command)

The Check Spelling dialog will show you the words that the spell checker considers to be incorrectly spelt.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


When the spell checker does come across such a word in your message you have the option to Ignore the suspect word or Ignore All instances of it in the current message.

With the corrected spelling in the Change To: field you can click the Change button to change the current instance of the misspelt word or the Change All to change all instances of the misspelt word in the current message.

If the spell checker does not offer the correct word try entering an alternate spelling in the Change To text box then click the Suggest button to see if the spell checker can now suggest the correct word.

If you know the word is correctly spelt you can add to the custom dictionary by clicking the Add button.

The Finish button will stop checking the current message and the Cancel button will close the spell checker. The Options button will open the Spelling tab of the general preferences dialog

.topic 8000

(Route : Folder Menu, Check Command)

The Checking Folder dialog enables you to run a check and repair on your database or just a part of it.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


When the dialog opens, the current folder will appear in the Folder list. If you want to check a different folder choose it from here. Alternatively you can run a check on the entire database by selecting the database name which will appear at the very top this list.

There are two options that you can select when checking your database. Firstly you can Automatically fix any errors found which will fix errors rather than just reporting their existence. Secondly you can generate a report by checking the Report progress to REPAIR.LOG file box. When the check has been completed you will find the REPAIR.LOG file in the main directory of your Ameol installation. You can open this file using any text editor or you can choose the View Repair Log option that is available at the end of the checking process.

Click the Start button to begin the checking process. You will see a progress indication above the two buttons. You should note that checking your entire database could take some time depending on the size of your message database and the speed of your machine. Click Cancel if you don't wish to proceed with a check at this time.

You can schedule the checking of folders using the Ameol Scheduler.

You should always run Check over your entire database if Ameol has been closed abnormally. To do this highlight the Folder list and press the Home key on your keyboard. The Folder section will display the top folder in your database, usually Main. Click Start to begin the check.

.topic 6223

(Route : Message Menu, Comment Command)

The Comment Message dialog allow you to post a comment to a message.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


When you comment to a message in a CIX Conferencing conference, the fields Conference, Topic and Comment To will be automatically filled with the details of the message that you are commenting to. This will be the message that was highlighted in the message window when you selected Comment from the Message menu or pressed C.

Press Control-Q to quote the original message in the message editor. Try not to quote too much of the original message - as a general rule the amount of new text typed by you should exceed the amount of quoted text. You can read about other keyboard shortcuts here.

To complete your comment message, type your message into the main area of this dialog, choose the Signature (if any) that you wish to include and then click the Save button. If you decide against posting this message, click Cancel.

.topic 6272

(You will see this dialog box if you try to download a long file name file to a Windows 3.1 installation of Ameol)



The Convert File Name dialog box allows you to convert a filename that you are downloading into a filename that is appropriate for your operating system.

For instance, if you are running Ameol on Windows3.1 and you're downloading a file with a name longer than 8 characters, Windows3.1 will not accept the long filename. This dialog box lets you change the name before actually downloading it.

Enter the name that you'd like in the Type the name for the file on your computer text box, then click OK to continue with the download

.topic 8001

(You will see this dialog box when you are prompted for a conference and topic to which an action should be applied)




Select the topic and conference to which you would like the action to be applied, then click the OK button.




.topic 6303

(Route : Folder Menu, New Local Topic Command)

The Create Local Topic dialog box allows you to add a local topic to any of the folders in the In Basket.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


You can copy messages into a local topic but this topic will have no effect on the other topics in the folder. Local topics are useful for storing messages on a particular subject or by a particular author so that they can easily be found again. You can use Rules to automatically move messages to local topics.

To create a local topic, choose the folder in which you'd like the topic created from the Create In list. Then enter the name of the topic in the Topic Name text box.

You can also create new mailboxes using the New Mailbox command from the Folder menu. Mailboxes differ from local topics in that in mailboxes the headers of mail and news message can be supressed using Show Mail/Usenet Headers from the View menu.

Click OK to create the topic or Cancel to exit the dialog without creating a topic.

.topic 6516

(Route : Folder Menu, New Mailbox Command)

The Create New Mailbox dialog box allows you to create a new mailbox within the Mail folder of the In Basket.




You can use mailboxes to save mail messages about a particular subject, from a particular author or to one of your e-mail addresses. You can also apply rules to your incoming mail messages so that messages that meet certain criteria are forwarded to this mailbox.

You can also create new local topics using the New Local Topic command from the Folder menu. Mailboxes differ from local topics in that in mailboxes the headers of mail and news message can be supressed using Show Mail/Usenet Headers from the View menu.


To create a new mailbox, choose the folder you wish the mailbox to be created in, enter the name of the mailbox in the Mailbox name text box and then click OK.

.topic 6412

(This message box appears when Ameol detects a problem with your modem. If you see this message check that your modem is switched on and correctly connected to your computer).



Once you've checked your modem, click Retry for Ameol to try and communicate with your modem again. Click Cancel to finish displaying the message.

The Use Software Flow Control button will change the way that Ameol communicates with your modem by switching Ameol into software control mode.

.topic 6689

(Route : Message Menu, Copy Command)

This dialog box allows you to copy a message from one location to another.



With one or more messages highlighted in the thread window, select the Copy command on the Message menu. From the Copy Message dialog select the topic you want to copy the message(s) to. Note that if the destination topic is not a local topic then the message(s) will be posted to that topic when you next connect.

.topic 6219

(Route : Conf Menu, File List Command, Download Button)

The Download File dialog box will show you the details of the file that you wish to download before an item is added to the Out Basket.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


The Filename text box shows the name of the file you are about to download, the Directory shows the directory into which Ameol will put the file on your computer, the Conference is the current CIX Conferencing conference and Topic is the topic within the conference from which you are downloading the file.

You can change the directory into which Ameol will download the file by clicking the Browse button.

If all the details displayed in this dialog are correct for the file you wish to download click the OK button to add this item to the Out Basket. The file will be downloaded when you next blink Ameol.

.topic 6418

(The Download File Already Exists dialog will appear when Ameol is trying to download a file into your download directory where a file of the same name already exists).




You can choose No (do not download the new file) or Yes (overwrite the existing file with the one that's being downloaded).

.topic 6182

(Route : Mail Menu, Download File Command)

The Download Mail File dialog box allows you to retrieve a file from your Mail directory on the CIX Conferencing system.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


To specify the file you wish to retrieve, if it is not already listed in the Download File text box, click the Filename button. This will allow you to choose the file from the list of files held in your Mail directory. This list is only as up-to-date as the last time you retrieved it from CIX Conferencing so if the file that you were expecting to find is not there or the Filename button is not visible you should click the Update button on the Mail Directory dialog.

The Directory text box shows the directory into which Ameol will download this file on your computer. Click the Browse button (the folder icon) if you want to choose another directory.

The Delete from CIX after downloading option will remove the file from your CIX Conferencing Mail directory after you have retrieved it.

Click the OK button to retrieve the selected file when you next connect to CIX Conferencing.

.topic 7002

(Route: Mail Menu, Address Book Command, Edit button (address book entry selected)

This dialog box allows you to enter or edit the details of an address book entry.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


Enter the real name associated with this email address, the email address itself and any comment you would like to attach to this entry.

.topic 7005

(Route : Mail Menu, Address Book Command, Edit or New Buttons)



The Edit Group dialog box allows you to add and remove entries from the highlighted address book group.

You can also change the name of the Address Book group that was highlighted when you clicked the Edit button on the main Address Book dialog.

You can change the name of the group by entering the new name in the Group Name text box and click OK to save your changes.

.topic 6617

(Route : Conf Menu,Edit My Resume Command)

The Edit My Resume dialog box allows you to edit your resume.



This resume is held on the CIX Conferencing system and is accessible by all other users of the CIX Conferencing system. You can put any information that you like into this resume such as your full name, telephone number, career details, any alternate email addresses or details of your web site.

The main area of this dialog shows the contents of your resume as it is currently held on CIX Conferencing. You can directly edit this text and when you have finished, click the Save button.

Your resume will be uploaded to CIX Conferencing the next time you connect.

.topic 6457

(Route :Settings Menu, Rules Command, New or Edit Buttons)

The Edit Rule dialog box allows you to test incoming messages to a specified folder to see if they meet certain criteria.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


If the messages do meet the criteria you have the option to perform a number of functions on the message.

In the From and To text boxes, enter the name of an author that you would like to search incoming messages for. If you check Inspect CC field, the CC field of the incoming message will also be tested for the specified author's name.

In the Subject and Message Body text boxes enter a word or string of characters that you would like search for in the subject and body of a message.

If an incoming message meets all of the criteria that you have specified in the text boxes you can choose to apply any of the options in the lower part of the dialog.

Delete the message will delete the message before it enters your message database.

Mark message priority will treat the message as normal but will mark it as high priority. You can quickly go to any priority messages by pressing F5 (see other Keyboard Shortcuts).

Mark message ignored will grey out the message in the message window and mark the message and comments to it as having been read.

Mark message read will mark the message as having been read.

Mark message tagged will tag the article so that the message body will be retrieved the next time Ameol connects to your Usenet service.

Mark message bookmarked will place a bookmark at that message. You can find the next and previous bookmarks using the Next and Previous Bookmark commands from the View menu.

Mark message kept will mark the message to be kept. Kept messages are never purged.

Mark message read-locked will mark the message as always unread.

Mark message watched will tag the message and any comments to it.

Move to will move the message to the folder chosen from the list, or to a folder created by using the New button.

When you have finished setting up the rule, click the OK button. The rule will then be applied to all incoming messages to the specified folder.

Some more information on rules:

·		The logic employed is AND. That is, if you specify a From, To and Subject field, then only if a message matches all three criteria is the rule deemed to be successful.

·		For the From and To field, you can specify either a username or a fully-qualified e-mail address. For example:

      Username:   		 simon
      Qualified Address:   		 simon@cix.compulink.co.uk

If you specify a username only, then mail to that username from any domain will match. Given the above example, mail from or to any of the following will match a username of simon:
               simon@cix.compulink.co.uk
               simon@compulink.co.uk
               simon@another.domain.co.uk
               simon@msn.com

   The following will NOT match:
               simon_cleland@cix.compulink.co.uk
               dr_simon@msn.com

If you specify a fully qualified address, then only mail from or to that address will match. In the examples given above, only mail from or to simon@cix.compulink.co.uk will match.

To match ANY user within a particular domain, specify the domain:

               @compulink.co.uk

If you specify this in the From or To field, then e-mail to or from any of the following will match the rule:

               simon@compulink.co.uk
               horus@compulink.co.uk
               i_am_a_duck@compulink.co.uk

·		All text in the fields is not case sensitive. So simon, Simon and SIMON will all match a rule.

·		When moving a message to another topic, any rules in the destination topic are applied to the message. This may result in the message being moved further. Ameol will handle circular instances and will not move a message back to the original topic.

Mail Form will cause a mail form to be used.

What are forms?

First of all:

Forms are rather complex and we recommend that only advanced Ameol2 users try them.

Forms are an extension to the rules in Ameol. Using a form is an extra action that can be triggered by a rule. Any  message which matches the rule can instruct Ameol to e-mail a predefined mail message back to the sender of that message. Forms are not completely integrated into Ameol2 and support for them is done on a "best-effort" basis. This means the ultimate resolution to a problem may be "stop using forms." The use of forms is only supported in v2.12.1885 and above.

Mail forms are text files that are stored in the FORMS subdirectory in the Ameol2 base directory and must have the extension .afm. If any forms are found when Ameol2 is started up an extra entry, "Mail Form" will appear on the Edit Rule dialog (Settings|Rules|New). If no FORMS directory is found when Ameol2 is started, or it does not contain any .afm files, mail forms are disabled and the extra option does not appear on the Rules dialog.

Ameol2 reads the forms directly once only, when it starts up. If you add extra forms while Ameol2 is running you have to exit and restart Ameol2 before the new forms can be seen.


Examples

I can get e-mail to enquiries@mycompany.co.uk with a Subject line of 'Prices'. I set up a rule to match 'Prices' in the Subject field and to e-mail the sender the current price list in response. (N.B., This is an example and is not in real use.)

A sample mail form that would fulfill this function is:

    To: $FROM$
    Subject: Our price list

    Thanks for your enquiry about our pricing. A price list is
    enclosed below.
    ...

A mail form is divided into two parts. The header part contains instructions to fill the To:, CC:, Subject, and Reply To: fields of the outgoing mail message. Then a blank line separates the header from the text body part.

In the above example, the name of the recipient is picked up from the $FROM$ macro which is filled in with the sender of the message which matched the rule. In the example, if I e-mailed enquiries@mycompany.co.uk from an account called test@cix.co.uk, the $FROM$ macro will expand to 'test@cix.co.uk'. $FROM$ does not use the Reply-To address of an incoming mail message.

The text body part also permits a macro called $INCLUDE$ which will pull in the contents of another file. Thus:

    Thanks for your enquiry about our pricing. A price list is
    enclosed below.

    $INCLUDE$  C:\Ameol2\Pricing\Pricing.txt

would retrieve the current price list from that location.

Even better, the pathname in the $INCLUDE$ macro can contain a macro. You can use this facility to set up an automatic help system. In this example, I can e-mail help@mycompany.co.uk and specify a help topic in the subject field. The mail form created for the help folder in Ameol2 is as follows:

    To: $FROM$
    Subject: Help on $SUBJECT$

    $INCLUDE$ C:\Ameol2\Helpfiles\$SUBJECT$.TXT

Thus if I mail help@mycompany.co.uk a message with a Subject of 'Features', the mail form will expand to:

    To: author
    Subject: Help on Rules

    $INCLUDE$ C:\Ameol2\Helpfiles\Features.txt

and will pull in the contents of Features.txt at this point in the message.

What happens if the user specifies a subject that doesn't match? If the $INCLUDE$ fails then Ameol2 will look for a file called !ERROR!.TXT in the given directory. This file can be set up to contain the following:

     Sorry, there is no help on this subject. A full list of valid
     subjects appear below:
     ...

If !ERROR!.TXT is not found, then an error is embedded in the outgoing form.

You can also return files via mail forms. The extra header field, Attachment, will attach a file in the mail message. If the recipient address is on CIX, the file is sent as binmail otherwise it is sent uuencoded/base64 depending on the option selected.

Here are two more examples. If you want to reject all e-mail from a particular person, create a rule to redirect all e-mail from that person to another folder and create the following mail form on that folder:

   To: $FROM$
   Subject: Re: $SUBJECT$

   I'm bored with listening to you. Please go away!

Or how about forwarding incoming e-mail to another address when you're on holiday?

   To: ms_secretary@joe_bloggs.co.uk
   Subject: Fw: $SUBJECT$

   ---- Forwarded Message ----
   $TEXT$

The $TEXT$ macro pulls in the contents of the message that matches. You also have $BODY$ that only pulls in the body and not the header.


WARNING

Forms are a very powerful feature, but there are some problems of which you should be aware.

1. Say you set up a rule and form similar to the "reject all email" example above. Now imagine that the person you are ignoring email from has set up a similar rule and form. The other person sends you a message, which triggers your rule, sending a form email message out. This then triggers their rule, sending you an email message, which triggers your rule. The result is a mail loop, the two systems spend all their time sending each other mail. If you do not detect and fix this problem rapidly you can expect your ISP to cut off your incoming email until you do fix it.

2. Be very careful setting up rules and forms which match the subject field only. Say you set up a rule and form to match the subject line, where if the subject contains "prices" your price list is sent. If your form uses "Re: $SUBJECT$" then the CC of the outgoing mail message with your price list in it will also match the rule, so you will end up sending yourself mail for ever - another mail loop.

3. You should not create forms using versions of AmEdit earlier than v1.04. If you are not able to use 1.04 or later you should use an alternate editor.


Summary

1. Forms must have the file extension .afm and must be saved in a Forms sub-directory off your main Ameol2 directory.

2. The Forms folder is only read once per session, when Ameol2 is started up. If you add a Forms directory or some new forms to the Forms directory while Ameol2 is running you will need to quit and restart Ameol2 before the changes will be apparent.

3. Valid lines in the header part of the form are:

   To:
   CC:
   Reply-To:
   Subject:
   Attachment:

4. The header and body sections of a mail form are separated by one or more blank lines.

5. Valid macros in forms are:

   $FROM$    - expands to the full email address of the person who sent the mail. This is taken from the Reply-To: field if it exists, otherwise from the From: field.

   $SUBJECT$ - expands to the subject of the incoming mail message

   $TEXT$    - expands to the full text of the incoming message, including the header

   $BODY$    - expands to the full text of the incoming message, excluding the header

   $INCLUDE$ - used with a path and filename, includes that file in the outgoing message


#

.topic 6650

(Route :Settings Menu, Scheduler Command, Add or Edit Buttons)

The Edit Scheduled Item dialog box allow you to edit existing, or set up new scheduled items.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


Choose the action that you wish to schedule from the Run This Action list.

You can run this chosen action Once at a specified time, At a specified time interval, Hourly, Daily, Weekly, Monthly and When Ameol is started.

Depending on the option that you choose from the Run This Event group, you will have to specify additional timing information in the When text box(es). Also, if you choose the Check Folder or Purge Folder actions, you will need to specify a folder from the Folder list.

When you have finished setting up your scheduled item, click the OK button to apply it.

.topic 6545

(Route :Settings Menu, Users Command, Edit Button)

The Edit User dialog box will allow you to change the password and the permissions assigned to a particular user account.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


To edit the password, enter the new password in the Password text box.

You can change the permissions for the account by checking or unchecking the item in the Permissions list.

When you have finished editing the properties for the user account, click the OK button to save your changes. The changes will not come into effect until Ameol is restarted.

.topic 6481

(You will see this dialog when decoding a file for which Ameol cannot find the name.)



The Enter Attachment Filename dialog box allows you to specify a filename for a file that Ameol is decoding.

Enter a filename for the file and then click the OK button.

.topic 6696



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


Enter the telephone number required to call this service.

.topic 6661



Enter the telephone number required to call this service and the Mercury PIN code, if required.

.topic 6187

(Route : Mail Menu,Erase File Command)



The Erase Mail File dialog box allows you to delete a file that is held in your Mail directory on the CIX Conferencing system.

You can choose the file to delete by clicking the Filename button or by entering the name in the Erase File text box. The list of files in you mail directory will only be as up-to-date as the last time you retrieved in from CIX Conferencing. If the file you were expecting to find is not in the list or if the Filename button is not visible click the Update button on the Mail Directory dialog.

Once you click OK an item will be added to the Out Basket and the file will be deleted the next time that Ameol connects to CIX Conferencing. You should be aware that once this file has been deleted it cannot be recovered. If you have sent the file to another user then deleting it from your mail directory does not delete it from their mail directory.

.topic 6300

(Route : File Menu, Event Log Command)

The Event Log dialog box shows a list of the events that have been recorded in the Event Log.




All events are recorded with the date, time and description of the event.

The list is displayed with the most recent entries at the top. Each entry is marked with either an information symbol or an exclamation symbol. An information symbol means that this event is part of Ameol's normal operation. The exclamation symbol means that this item is an error that has occurred. This does not necessarily mean that such an event is anything to be concerned about.

You can specify which events are recorded by clicking the Options button.

If you want to save a copy of the event log as it currently stands, click the Save As button and chose a filename into which the log can be saved.

The Clear button will allow you to clear all the events that are currently in the log.



.topic 6318

(Route : File Menu, Event Log Command, Options Button)

The Event Log Options dialog box allows you to select which types of events and messages are recorded in the event log.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


The group of options at the top of the dialog box allows you to select the events that are recorded.

Disk and File I/O will record all instances where information is read from or written to a disk on your computer.

Database will record any purges that you carry out on the message database.

Communications will record the services to which you connect.

Startup and Shutdown will record Ameol being opened and closed along with any log on details.

Maintenance will record any check and repair operations that you carry out on the message database.

The group of options at the bottom of the dialog box allows you to select the kind of message that will be recorded.

Errors will record any error messages that are displayed

Warnings will record any warning messages that are displayed.

Messages will record any information messages that are displayed.

The Limit Log to text box allows you to specify how many lines of events are kept in the log at any one time. The default is 100 lines.


The event log is slowly being superceded by log messages posted into the local Logs/Blinks topic, which can be found in your in basket.



.topic 6552

(Route : File Menu, Export Command)

This Export dialog box allows you to select the format of the messages that you wish to export from Ameol.



Choose the format from the Export list and then click the OK button to proceed with the export process.

The CIX Scratchpad option outputs the data in CIX Scratchpad format for importing into Ameol, Ameol or any other OLR. The output of this format will include the message headers.

The Text File option outputs the data in plain text without the headers and is more suitable for printing or forwarding. The resulting file can not be imported into an OLR.

The Address Book option allows you to export your Ameol address book as a CSV file or as a CSV file with groups.

You can go straight to the main Export dialog by pressing Control-E from any Ameol message window. In this case the CIX Scratchpad format will be used. Click here for other keyboard shortcuts.



.topic 6216

(Route : File Menu, Export Command, OK Button)

This Export dialog allows you to select options for what data to export and to where.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


Select the file that you wish to export the data to in the Export to list. If you want to export to a file that you've exported to before, you can select it from the list. If you want to use a new file, type in the name of the file into the Export to: text box. To export to an existing file that is not in the Export to list click the Folder button next to the list.

If you do choose a file that you used before or that already exists you can check the Append to the end of the existing file option to add the data that you're exporting to the end of the current contents. If you don't choose this option, the previous contents will be overwritten with the new data.

You can choose to Include message attributes such as the read, marked or priority status of messages. This check box is only available when you choose the CIX Scratchpad export format.

Select the folder from which you wish to export messages from the From list. To export your entire database select the top level folder in the From list.
You can specify messages by a particular author by entering their name(s) in the Author(s) list. If you specified this author before you can select the name from the list.

You can specify a date range for the messages that you are exporting by entering a start date in the Date text box and an end date in the to text box. Dates should be intered in the format 22/2/98.

You can also specify a range of messages from the Range options. All will export all messages, Current message will just export the currently highlighted message in the message window, Current thread will export the root and comment messages in the current thread and Messages will export all message numbers specified in the From and To text boxes.

When you have finished setting up the export options, click the Save button to export the data to the specified file.

.topic 6376

(Route : Mail Menu, Export File Command)

The Export file dialog box will allow you to export a file that is held in your Mail directory on the CIX Conferencing system to a conference topic on CIX Conferencing.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


If there is no filename in the Filename text box, click the Filename button to select the file from the contents of your mail directory. If the file that you were expecting to find in your Mail directory is not there or the Filename button is not visible you should update the list by clicking the Update button on the Mail Directory dialog box.

Choose the conference topic you wish to export the file to from the Topic list.

If you would like the file deleted from your Mail directory after you have exported it, choose the Delete after exporting option.

When you have selected the file and conference topic, click the OK button to export the file the next time Ameol connects to CIX Conferencing.

.topic 7008

(Route : Conf Menu, Create Fax Command, To Or Number Buttons)



The Fax Mail Address Book dialog box allows you to copy names and fax numbers into the relevant text boxes in the Fax Message dialog box.

To copy a name and fax number, highlight the listing you require in the Full Name/Fax No. list. Then click the OK button to transfer the name and fax number to your fax message.

You can delete an entry from the list by highlighting it and then clicking the Delete button.

.topic 6224

(Route: Conf Menu, Create Fax Command)

The Fax Message dialog box allows you to send a fax message to any fax machine via the CIX Conferencing system.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


Enter the number of the fax machine you wish to send the message to in the Number text box and the name of the recipient in the To text box. If you click either the Number or To buttons you will be able to select a name and number from the Fax Mail Address Book.

If you wish to add the fax number and name to the Fax Mail Address Book, click the Add to Fax Mail Address Book button.

In the From text box, enter your name. In the Subject text box enter the title of your fax message.

Now, in the main body of the dialog enter the text of your message. You can add a signature to the bottom of the message by choosing one from the Signature list. You can also choose not to include a cover page by choosing the No Cover Page option.

When you have finished composing your message, click the Save button. Your message will be sent the next time Ameol connects to CIX Conferencing.

Please note that the CIX Conferencing system does not support the receipt of faxes by users.


.topic 6654

(Route : File Menu, Find in File Lists Command,Find Button)

This dialog box shows the results of a Find in File Lists search.



The main body of the dialog shows a list of all the files found using the search criteria specified. This list gives the name of the file, which conference/topic file list it resides in, the size of the file (in bytes) and the description that accompanies the file in the file list.

If you want to download a file from this list, highlight the file that you'd like and click the Download button. The file will be retrieved the next time that Ameol connects to the CIX Conferencing system.

If you want to perform a new search click the Find button.

.topic 6273

(This Find dialog indicates that a message that meets your search criteria has been found.)



If you want to see if there is another instance of your search text within the same message, click the Next in Msg button.

If you want to move to the next message that matches your search criteria click the Next button.

If you'd like to mark this message before moving on to find the next message click the Mark button.

Click the Close button to stop the search.

.topic 6212

(Route : File Menu,Search Command)



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


This Find dialog box allows you to set up the criteria for a search through the messages in your message database.

If you have performed a search on your message database and saved the criteria, you will be able to select these criteria by selecting the name of your saved search from the Saved Searches list. You can delete a search from this list by clicking the Delete Search button.

If you want to save your search criteria for later use, click the Save Search As button.

In the Find What list, enter the text that you wish to search for. If you have done a search before your previous search text will appear in this list. To search for a phrase enter that phrase in quotation marks, e.g. "text to find".

Choose the folder that you wish to search from the Folder list and select the direction of the search from the Direction list.

If you'd like to search for messages written by a particular author, enter the author's name in the Author text box. You can also define a date range for the search by entering the start and end dates in the Date Range text boxes. The date separator is norrmally a forward slash as shown above but may be changed on some Windows95 and WindowsNT systems using the Date tab of the Regional Settings application in Control Panel.

The check box options at the bottom of the dialog allow you to match the case of the entered text in your search, mark any messages that are found, only search for whole words, search in article bodies and/or headers and use wildcard expressions in your search.


.topic 6613

(Route : File Menu, Find in File Lists Command)

The Find in File Lists dialog enables you to search for a file amongst any or all of the file lists that are currently held byAmeol.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


In the Find What list enter the word or text that you'd like to search for. If you have searched for a file before you will be able to select the text that you used from this list.

Select the folder whose file lists you wish to search from the Folder list. You also have options to match the case of the text that you entered and to match full words only.

When you have finished entering the criteria for your search, click the Find button.

.topic 6489

(Route : Message Menu, Forward Command

The Forward Mail dialog box allows you to forward a message to an e-mail address.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


Enter the e-mail address that you would like to forward the message to in the To text box. You can choose an e-mail address from the Address Book by clicking the To button. Enter any further addresses in the CC and BCC text boxes, and enter any new text to send with the message in the large text entry area.

When you have entered the address to forward the e-mail message to, click the Save button to send the message the next time Ameol blinks.

.topic 6558

(Route : Conf Menu, Show All Conferences Command)

The Conference List dialog box shows the CIX Conferences that are available for you to join.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


Note that this list is only as up-to-date as the last time you retrieved the list. To get the latest version click the Update button and the new list will be retrieved the next time Ameol blinks.

The list itself shows subject groupings for the conferences.

You can search the list by entering a word or string of characters in the text box at the top of the dialog. The list will then update to show only those conferences that match your find term. To view the whole list again delete your search term from the text box.

The 'Last Message Date' column shows the date of the last message posted to that conference.

To join a conference, highlight the conference name you wish to join and click the Join button.

Some conferences will have a 'lock' symbol next their name. These are closed conferences, where the moderator of the conference has to join you.. To join a closed conference, you will need to send an e-mail to the moderator of the conference and ask to be added. You can find out who the moderators are by selecting the File Menu, the Script Item and choosing the Show Conference Moderators entry.

Any conference in which you already participate will be shown in red.

.topic 6694

(Route : Conf Menu, Show All Conferences Command, New tab)

This dialog box displays any new CIX conferences since the last list update.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


Note that this list is only as up-to-date as the last time you retrieved the list. To get the latest version click the Update button, and the new list will be retrieved the next time Ameol blinks.

You can search the list by entering a word or string of characters in the text box at the top of the dialog. The list will then update to show only those conferences that match your find term. To view the whole list again delete your search term from the text box.

The 'Last Message Date' column shows the date of the last message posted to that conference.

To join a conference, highlight the conference name you wish to join and click the Join button.

Some conferences will have a 'lock' symbol next their name. These are closed conferences, where the moderator of the conference has to join you.. To join a closed conference, you will need to send an e-mail to the moderator of the conference and ask to be added. You can find out who the moderators are by selecting the File Menu, the Script Item and choosing the Show Conference Moderators entry.

Any conference in which you already participate will be shown in red.

.topic 6557

(Route : Conf Menu, Show All Users Command)

The Full List of CIX Participants dialog box shows the names of all the users of the CIX Conferencing system.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


This list is only as up-to-date as the last time it was retrieved. To refresh the list, click the Update button.

To search the list, enter the text you wish to search for in the text box. When you stop typing the list will update to show only those names which match your search term. To view the whole list again delete your search term from the text box.

The Resume button will show you the resume for the currently highlighted CIX Conferencing user if it is held by Ameol, if not it can be downloaded the next time Ameol connects to the CIX Conferencing system. If you have already downloaded the resume for a CIX Conferencing user their name is displayed in red. To mail the highlighted user select the Mail button.

.topic 6483

(Route : News Menu, Get New Articles Command)



The Get New Articles dialog box allows you to specify from which newsgroup you would like to get new Usenet newsgroup articles.

Choose the newsgroup from the Get New Articles From list. When you have chosen the newsgroup click the OK button.

The new articles will be retrieved the next time you connect to your Usenet newsgroup service.

.topic 6280

(Route : Conf Menu, Resumes Command, Get Button)



The Get Resume dialog box allows you to retrieve the resume for another user of the CIX Conferencing system.

Enter the CIX Conferencing nickname of the resume you wish to get in the Retrieve resume for text box.

Click OK to download the resume the next time Ameol connects to the CIX Conferencing system.

.topic 6484

(Route : News Menu, Get Tagged Articles Command)



The Get Tagged Articles dialog box allows you to select from which newsgroups you'd like to retrieve the full articles for the headers that you have tagged.

Choose the newsgroup from the Get Tagged Articles From list.

Click OK to retrieve the tagged articles for this newsgroup the next time Ameol blinks.

.topic 6208

(Route : Message Menu, Goto Command)



The Goto dialog box allows you to jump straight to a particular message in the current CIX Conferencing conference topic, mailbox or newsgroup.

Enter the number of the message you wish to go to in the Go To Message text box and click the OK button. If the message is not in your database you will be asked if you want Ameol to collect it when you next connect.

.topic 101

(Route : File Menu, Import Command, Ameol Import Wizard Selection, Change Button)

This dialog is part of the Ameol database import wizard.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


This dialog allows you to change the directory from which messages will be imported, the Ameol user from which messages will be imported and the database into which the message will be imported.

.topic 6345

(Route : File Menu, Import Command)



The Import dialog box allows you to select the type of the data that you would like to import into Ameol.

You can choose from the following options.

Ameol Address Book
Ameol Import Wizard
Ameol Scratchpad
CIX Conferences List
CIX Scratchpad
CIX Users List
CompuServe Address Book

Click OK to locate the file that contains the information you wish to import.

.topic 6348

(Route : File Menu, Import Command, OK Button (CIX Scratchpad List Item Selected))

The Import CIX Scratchpad dialog allows you to specify the scratchpad file that you wish to import.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


If you have already imported data from a scratchpad file you can choose it from the Import From list. If you wish to locate a file click the Folder button, or just type the name of the file into the box. If you have a number of files to import you can use a wildcard in this box, for example c:\temp\test.* will import all valid files named test.*

The Respect message attributes option will check the imported messages for special flags (generated by Ameol when a message is exported) to see if the imported message should be marked as read, kept, bookmarked etc.

Archive this file after importing will save a copy of this scratchpad file to the archive directory in your Ameol installation.


Click Start to begin importing data.

.topic 6686

(Route : File Menu, Import Command, OK Button (Ameol Import Wizard List Item Selected))



The Ameol Import Wizard allows you to import your database from an Ameol installation.
Ameol will attempt to find your Ameol installation. If it can not locate it you will be prompted to locate the ameol\data directory by clicking the Change button.

If you have multiple user accounts set up with Ameol or Ameol then you will also need to select the user account and database that you wish to import into in the From User and Import To lists. You also have the option to delete the data files that you're importing from and to apply any rules that you have set when importing the data. All of these options can be set by clicking the Change button.

Note that this does not import any message in your outbasket waiting to be posted so you should blink with Ameol and empty your outbasket before starting the import.

Click the Start button to start importing the data.

.topic 6232

(You will see this dialog when using a CIX Conferencing script that requires user input.)



The Input dialog box is for entering data that is required to run a CIX Conferencing script.

(Note that the title of the dialog box and the information requested will vary depending on the script that you are adding to the Out Basket).

.topic 6572

(Route : Settings Menu, Communications Command, Connections Tab, Edit Button (Telnet connection item highlighted))

The Connection Card dialog box enables you to edit the properties for an existing Internet connection card.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


The Internet address that this card connects to is shown in the Address text box. You can adjust the timeout (in seconds) by editing the figure in the Timeout text box.

You can choose the service that you wish to use from the Port or Service list and you can assign a script to be run by entering its name and location in the Script to run text box. If you wish to locate the script file click the browse button.

To save your changes, click the OK button.

.topic 6210

(Route : Conf Menu, Join Conference)

The Join Conference dialog box allows you to join a CIX conference.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


Enter the name of the conference that you wish to join in the Conference text box and a particular topic (if you don't want to join them all) in the Topic text box.

You also have the option of choosing how many messages you would like to download when you join by entering a number in the Recent Messages on Join text box. The default is 100.

Click the OK button to add an item to the Out Basket. You will be joined to the conference the next time that Ameol connects to CIX Conferencing.

.topic 6390

(This dialog will appear on startup if Ameol has more than one user account set-up or if the Administrator account has a password set).



The Log In dialog box requires you to enter the log in name of the user account that you wish to use Ameol with and also the password for that account.
If this is the first time you have seen this box then it is likely that you have just created a new user. To start Ameol enter the name of the database you want to open.

You can bypass this startup screen by adding the username and password to the command line for your Ameol Program Manager or Start Menu item in Windows. Check your Windows manuals if you are not sure how to do this.

The default database log in details are Administrator with a blank password, as shown above.

.topic 6497

(Connect to POP3 Mail Server that requires user name and password)



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


The Login to Mail Server dialog box allows you to gain access to your Mail Server computer. This computer holds all of your e-mail messages before they are downloaded by Ameol.

If you check the Remember Password option, Ameol will remember your details and not prompt you again.

Enter your login name and password and click the OK button to log on to your Mail Server.




.topic 6688




This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


This dialog box means Ameol could not open your database index file (admin.adb). This can happen if your hard disk has become corrupt, you have moved your database or your database is on a network drive which is currently not available to you. Click any of the buttons on the image above to see what options you can choose.

.topic 6186

(Route : Mail Menu, Directory Command)

The Mail Directory dialog box shows the files held in your mail directory on the CIX Conferencing system.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


This dialog also allows you to apply commands to these files. All commands will take place the next time Ameol connects to the CIX Conferencing system.
This list is only as up-to-date as the last time it was retrieved from CIX Conferencing.

·		To refresh the list click the Update button.

·		To download the currently highlighted file, click the Download button.

·		To erase the currently highlighted file, click the Erase button.

·		To send the currently highlighted file to another user on the CIX Conferencing system, click the Send File button.

·		To export the currently highlighted file to a CIX conference topic, click the Export button.

·		To rename the currently highlighted file, click the Rename button.

.topic 6550

(Route : Mail Menu, New Message Command)

The Mail Message dialog box allows you to compose an e-mail message.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


Enter the e-mail address of the recipient of the message in the To text box. You can copy your message to other addresses by entering them in the CC text box, or send them privately using the BCC text box. When entering multiple addresses be sure to leave a space between each address. You can choose the addresses to go in either of these text boxes from the Address Book by clicking the To,  CC or BCC buttons.

Select the address that you would like replies sent to in the Reply To list box. One Reply To address is kept for each mailbox, or you can choose your default Reply To address. Reply-To addresses are only acted upon when the mail is sent via an Internet mail server. If your mail is being sent through CIX Conferencing the Reply-To address will be set to your conferencing email address.

Enter the title of your message in the Subject text box.

Press Control-Q to quote the original message in the message editor. Try not to quote too much of the original message - as a general rule the amount of new text typed by you should exceed the amount of quoted text. You can read about other keyboard shortcuts here.

If you want to attach an encoded file to your message, locate the file by clicking the Attachment button or enter the name and location of the file in the Attachment text box. You can attach more than one file to a message but must type the path/names of any files after the first one by hand. Separate the filenames with a space, and remember to put quotation marks around any files that contain spaces in their name or path. After adding an attachment you can select the method of encoding from the list that will appear next to the Attachment text box.

The two buttons with arrows allow you to assign a priority to the message. The up arrow will mark your message high priority, the down arrow low. You should bear in mind that not all mail reading software will recognise the priority of an e-mail message.

The CC button allows you to select whether you keep a copy of this email message. By default this button is depressed meaning that you do get a copy of all of your outgoing messages.

You will see the chain symbol button if this e-mail message is in reply to an e-mail message that you have received. If you click this button, the text of the original message will be appended to your reply.

The RR (Return Receipt) button requests a message back from the addressees' mail software when your message has been read. Not all mail software supports this feature.

Now enter the your message in the main part of the dialog box. You can add a signature to the end of your message by choosing one from the Signature list.

Click the Save button to send your message the next time Ameol blinks.


.topic 6571

(Route : Settings Menu, Communications Command, Connections Tab, Edit Button (Ameol Communications connection item highlighted))

The Connection Card dialog box allows you to adjust the settings of your modem connection card.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


The Auto Detect button will configure your modem settings without you having to enter any details. The Modem button will allow you to adjust the messages sent to and from your modem.

.topic 6691

(Route : Settings Menu, Communications Command, Connections Tab, Edit Button (Telephony Modem connection item highlighted))

This Connection Card dialog box will only be available if you are running the 32-bit version of Ameol under WindowsNT or Windows95.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


The individual modem settings (Port, Speed etc) are set at a system level within your Control Panel group.

Mercury PIN numbers are set from the system Locations dialog which can be opened by clicking the Location button.

.topic 6205

(Route : Settings Menu,Communications Command, Edit Button (Modem connection item highlighted), Modem Button)

The Modem Settings dialog box allows you to set the messages that are sent to and receive from your modem.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


Before editing any of these settings check the manual for your modem.

You can save the settings for your modem so that they can be used for other connection cards by clicking the Save As button.

.topic 6690

(Route : Message Menu, Move Command)

This dialog box allows you to move a message from one location to another.



With one or more messages highlighted in the thread window, select the Move command on the Message menu. From the Move Message dialog select the topic you want to move the message(s) to. Note that if the destination topic is not a local topic then the message(s) will be withdrawn from the original topic and posted to the destination topic when you next connect.

.topic 6615

(Route : Settings Menu, Preferences Command, Viewer Tab Page, Edit Mugshot Lists Button)

The Mugshot Editor dialog box allows you to associate picture or 'mugshot' files with author names.



When you have an association between an author name and a mugshot, Ameol can display the picture every time the current message is by the associated author.

To add an association, enter the CIX Conferencing nickname or e-mail address to the User Name text box.
Now, choose a file from the Filename list. The Filename list displays the files that are in the mugshot directory of your Ameol installation. The Preview area will show the mugshot that you have selected. When you have entered the user and file names, click the Add button to add it to the list of associations.

If you want to change the user name/filename association at any time, enter the new data in the User Name and/or Filename and then click the Change button.

To remove the currently highlighted association, click the Remove button. If you want to delete the mugshot file from your computer click the Delete button.

Mugshots for CIX Conferencing users can be found in the mugshots conference on the CIX conferencing system.

.topic 6485

(Route : (Select group of messages that contain an encoded file) Message Menu, Decode Binary Attachment)



The Multipart Attachment Decoding dialog box allows you to select a group of messages that contain parts of an encoded file, put them into the correct order, and decode them into a single file.

If you have selected all of the parts of the encoded file, then use the Move buttons to put them into the correct order. If you have not selected all of the parts, then click Cancel to return to the message window and re-select the messages that make up the entire file.

Once the messages are in the right order, click the Decode button to decode the file and save it to your hard disk.

.topic 6637

(Route : Settings Menu, Communications Command, New Button)

The New Blink Entry dialog box allows you to add the name of a new entry in the Blink type list.



Enter the name of the new blink in the Enter the new blink entry name text box. To save the new blink name, click the OK button

Once the name has been created and saved, you can edit the properties of the blink by clicking the Edit button on the Blink tab box .

.topic 6200

(Route : Message Menu, Say Command)

The New Message dialog box allows you to compose a 'Say' or original message and post it to a CIX Conferencing conference.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


The Conference and Topic lists should contain the names of the conference and topic into which you would like to post your message.

Enter the title of your message in the Subject Title text box.

Now compose your message in the main body of the dialog box. You can add a signature to the end of your message by choosing a signature from the Signature list.

When you have completed your message, click the Save button. Your message will be posted the next time Ameol connects to the CIX Conferencing system.

.topic 6326

(Route : Settings Menu, Signatures Command, New Button)



The New Signature dialog box allows you to specify the name for a new signature.
This name must be 8 characters or less and will appear in the Signature list in all new message dialog boxes.

Enter the name in the New signature name text box and click OK to save it.

When you return to the Signature dialog box you can compose the actual content for the new signature name that you've just created.

.topic 6551

(Route : News Menu, Post Article Command)

The News Article dialog box allows you to compose a Usenet newsgroup article.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


The Newsgroups text box will be filled in with the name of the current newsgroup.

Enter the title of your message in the Subject text box.

Select the address that you would like replies sent to in the Reply To list box. One Reply To address is kept for each newsgroup, or you can choose your default Reply To address. Reply-To addresses are only acted upon when the article is sent via an Internet news server. If your article is being sent through CIX Conferencing the Reply-To address will be set to your conferencing email address.

If you want to attach an encoded file to your message, locate the file by clicking the Attachment button or enter the name and location of the file in the Attachment text box. If you do add an attached file then you can select the method of encoding from the Encoding list.

Now enter your message in the main part of the dialog box. You can add a signature to the end of your message by choosing one from the Signature list.

Click the Save button to send your message the next time Ameol blinks.

.topic 6555

(Route : News Menu, Show All Newsgroups Command)

The Newsgroup List dialog box shows the Usenet newsgroups that are available for you to subscribe to.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


Note that this list is only as up-to-date as the last time you retrieved the list. To get the list of new groups click the New button, and the list of changes made to the newsgroup list since the last update will be retrieved the next time Ameol blinks. To download the full list again click the Update button.

You can search the list by entering a word or string of characters in the text box at the top of the dialog. The list will then show only the newsgroups that match your search text. Type the word you want to search for, then wait a second and the list will update to display the groups containing your word. To view the whole list again delete your search term from the text box.

To subscribe to a newsgroup, highlight the newsgroup name you wish to join and click the Subscribe button.

Any newsgroup to which you already subscribe will be shown in red.

The news server in use is displayed in the Server list box at the top of this dialog. If you have more than one news server configured within Ameol you can choose which list to view by choosing the alternative server here.


.topic 6692

(Route : News Menu, Show All Newsgroups Command, New tab)

The New Newsgroups List dialog box shows the new Usenet newsgroups that are available for you to subscribe to.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


This is the list of new newsgroups on the server since the last full list update.

You can search the list by entering a word or string of characters in the text box at the top of the dialog. The list will then show only the newsgroups that match your search text. Type the word you want to type for, then wait a second and the list will update to display the groups containing your word. To view the whole list again delete your search term from the text box.

To subscribe to a newsgroup, highlight the newsgroup name you wish to join and click the Subscribe button.

Any newsgroup to which you already subscribe will be shown in red.

The news server in use is displayed in the Server list box at the top of this dialog. If you have more than one news server configured within Ameol you can choose which list to view by choosing the alternative server here.


.topic 6678

(Route : Settings Menu, Usenet Command, Servers Tab, Add Button or Edit Button)

This dialog box (tab page) allows you to change the settings for CIX Conferencing usenet.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


These options are shown either as a dialog box (as above) or as a tab page (if you do not have the Internet service installed). In either case the options are the same.

.topic 6679

(Route : Settings Menu, Usenet Command, Servers Tab, Add Button or Edit Button)

The News Server Properties dialog box allows you to create new news servers and edit existing ones.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

.topic 6490

(Route : News Menu, Show All Newsgroups, Filters button)

The Newsgroups Filter dialog box allows you to select which newsgroups to select or which newsgroups to reject when downloading newsgroup articles.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


The first option is to Accept ALL newsgroups. This will apply no filtering to the newsgroups that you receive.

The second option, Accept ALL newsgroups but reject those listed below, allows you to enter a list of newsgroups that you wish to reject.

The third option, Reject ALL newsgroups but accept those listed below, allows you to enter a list of newsgroups that you wish to accept.

Click the OK button to apply the filtering option that you have set up.

.topic 6649

(You will see this dialog if you try to post a comment to the noticeboard or pc.noticeboard CIX conferences).



The Noticeboard Prompt dialog box warns you that if you comment to a message in the noticeboard conference on the CIX Conferencing system, your message will almost certainly be withdrawn. The preferred method for responding to a message in noticeboard is e-mail.

Click the Mail button to respond to the current noticeboard message by e-mail. You can post a comment by clicking the Comment button.


.topic 112

(You will see this Password dialog box when you have the set the Restoring Ameol from icon requires password option in the General tab page.



Enter the password in the Enter password text box and click OK to continue.

.topic 6626

(Route : Settings Menu, Toolbar Command, Spare Item in Categories List)

The Pick External Application dialog box allows you to add an any external application to the toolbar.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


Enter the path and filename for the application in the Filename text box. If you want to locate the application on your hard disk, click the browse (folder) button.

You can also send you application parameters when you open it. To send a parameter enter the parameters directly into the Parameters text box.

You can choose to add the name of the current author or the currently selected text to the Parameters text box by clicking the > button although not every program will respond to these parameters in a useful way

Click OK to add your chosen application to the toolbar. The button for this application will carry the application's icon.



.topic 6627

(Route : File Menu, Print Command (When a File List is displayed))

The Print File List dialog box allows you to select which of the File List dialog box tab pages to print.



You have the option to print the File List, the File Directory list (if you are a moderator of the selected conference) and the list of Previous Downloads. You can choose one or more of these options.

To adjust the set up of your printer click the Setup button. To set the number of copies printed enter the number you require in the Copies text box

When you have selected which of these lists to print click the Print button.

.topic 6703

(Route : File Menu, Print Command (When the in basket is displayed))

The Print In Basket dialog box allows you to select whether to print conferences and topics or just conferences.



You have the option to print Conferences Only or Conferences and Topics.

Some topic/folder flags are also printed next to the conference or topic.

L = this is a local topic
F = this topic has an flist
R = this topic is read-only
X = this topic is marked as resigned
M = this conference is moderated by you

To adjust the set up of your printer click the Setup button. To set the number of copies printed enter the number you require in the Copies text box

When you have selected what to print click the Print button.

.topic 6702

(This dialog box is produced when you select Print when viewing a list (CIX Conference list, CIX User list, Usenet Group list. THe exact options available will depend on the list being viewed)



Select the required option.

To adjust the set up of your printer click the Setup button. To set the number of copies printed enter the number you require in the Copies text box

When you have selected what to print click the Print button.

.topic 6576

(Route : File Menu, Print Command)

The Print Messages dialog box allows you to select which messages from your message database to print.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


You can select the folder to print messages from in the From list and the author of the messages in the Author list. If the author whose messages you'd like to print does not appear in the list type the name into the Author list box.

It is possible to restrict the range of messages to a given date range by entering the start and end dates in the Date and to text boxes.

You can also opt to print All messages, just the Current message, the Current thread of messages or range of Messages where you specify the first and the last message number.

To adjust the set up of your printer click the Setup button. To set the number of copies printed enter the number you require in the Copies text box.

When you have selected what to print click the Print button.

.topic 6585

(Route : File Menu, Print Command (When a new message is being edited))

The Print New Message dialog box allows you to select which elements of  your message to print.



You have the option to print All the text or just the Selected Text.

To adjust the set up of your printer click the Setup button. To set the number of copies printed enter the number you require in the Copies text box.

When you have selected what to print click the Print button.

.topic 6704

(Route : File Menu, Print Command (when the Out Basket is active))




To adjust the set up of your printer click the Setup button. To set the number of copies printed enter the number you require in the Copies text box.

When you are ready to print click the Print button.

.topic 6647

(Route : File Menu, Print Command (When the participants list is displayed))

The Print Participants List dialog box allows you to select which of the Participants List dialog box tab pages to print.



You have the option to print the Participants in the selected conferences, and the Moderators for selected conferences. You can choose one or both of these options.

To adjust the set up of your printer click the Setup button. To set the number of copies printed enter the number you require in the Copies text box.

When you have selected which list to print click the Print button.

.topic 6616

(Route : File Menu, Print Command (When a resume is displayed))

The Print Resume dialog box allows you to change the number of copies and print setup before printing.




To adjust the set up of your printer click the Setup button. To set the number of copies printed enter the number you require in the Copies text box.

When you are ready to print click the Print button.

.topic 6577

(Route : File Menu, Print Command (When the Terminal Window is open))

The Print Terminal dialog box allows you to select which elements of the Terminal window to print.



You have the option to print the All the text, just the Selected Text or the Entire Window.

To adjust the set up of your printer click the Setup button. To set the number of copies printed enter the number you require in the Copies text box.

When you have selected which list to print click the Print button.

.topic 6681

(Route : Settings Menu, Purge Settings Command)

From this dialog you can set the purge options for any or all of your folders.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


Click on any topic to view or change the purge settings in that topic. Ameol will always keep the thread structure intact, so for example if you choose "Purge all threads older than 30 days" then a thread will only be deleted if all the messages within that thread are more than 30 days old. Unread messages are never purged.

When you have configured your purge options as you desire you can select Purge Now to purge
immediately or Close the window to keep your settings for purging later.

To purge your whole database (Global Purge) highlight the top level folder (in the example above ADMIN) and click the Purge Now button.

.topic 8002

This dialog box appears if the last conferencing connection failed to complete. Choose to try to re-download your messages immediately or when you next connect. If this happens frequently you should check that you have enough disk space and that your telephone line or internet connection is working correctly. If the problem persists contact Support.

.topic 8003

This dialog box appears if the last connection to CIX Conferencing failed and it is likely there are messages waiting to be recovered. Choose Yes to recover those messages, No if you want the messages to be discarded or Cancel to stop the connection.

.topic 6369

(Route : Mail Menu, Rename File Command)

The Rename Mail File dialog box allows you to rename a file that is held in your mail directory on the CIX Conferencing system.



If the file whose name you wish to change is not in the From text box, click the Filename button to select it from your Mail Directory file list.

In the To text box enter the new name for the file.

Click the OK button to rename the file the next time Ameol connects to the CIX Conferencing system.

.topic 6663

(You will see this dialog box if you have scheduled an item that is missed for some reason. For instance, if you schedule a blink at 5.30 on Friday and Ameol is not running at this time, the next time you start Ameol you will see this dialog.)



If you click Yes then the scheduled item that was missed will be run immediately. If you click No the scheduled item will not be run. Clicking No to All will skip all missed scheduled items.

The Always carry out missed scheduled items when Ameol starts option will automatically run any missed scheduler items when you start Ameol.

.topic 6407

(Route : Conf menu, Resign Command)



The Resign dialog box allows you to choose which part of a CIX Conferencing conference you wish to resign from.

The two options are to resign from just the named topic of the conference or to resign from the entire conference. If you resign just the topic, you will still receive messages from the other topics in this conference.

Click OK to resign the chosen topic or conference the next time Ameol connects to the CIX Conferencing system.

If you are resigning from a newsgroup you will only be asked if you want to resign that group.

.topic 6614

(Route : Conf Menu, Resumes Command, View Button)

The Resume For (CIX Conferencing user name) dialog box shows the contents of the resume for a particular CIX Conferencing user.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


This resume is only as up-to-date as the last time it was downloaded and this date and time is shown at the top of the dialog. To refresh it click the Update button.

To view the list of all the resumes currently held by Ameol, click the List button. If you want to scan through the resumes use the two arrow buttons to go forwards or backwards through the list.

.topic 6243

(Route : Conf Menu, Resumes Command)

The Resumes dialog box shows the list of CIX Conferencing user resumes currently held by Ameol.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


Using this dialog you can view the resumes in the list and add, refresh or delete resumes.

The resumes held by Ameol are only as up-to-date as the last time that they were downloaded. The last time the selected resume was download is shown at the bottom on the dialog. To get the latest copy of the currently highlighted resume, click the Update button.

Any resumes that have been downloaded but you have not yet read are displayed in bold.

To view the contents of the currently highlighted resume click the View button.

If the resume that you want to view is not in the list, click the Get button to download it from the CIX Conferencing system.

If you want to remove the currently highlighted resume click the Delete button.

.topic 6456

(Route : Settings Menu, Rules Command)

The Rule Manager dialog box shows the rules that are defined for the folders in the In Basket.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


To see the rules that have been established for a particular folder in the Rules in selected folder list, select the folder from the Folders tree-view list.

To edit the rule for the currently highlighted folder click the Edit button. If you want to remove the rule, click the Remove button.

To establish a new rule for the currently highlighted folder click the New button.

To apply the rules for the selected folder to the messages in that folder click the Apply button. Note that this will take some time to perform, particularly if the folder has a large amount of messages in it.

You can change the order in which the rules will be actioned by using the Move Up and Move Down buttons.

To disable rules completely select the Disable rules check box.

A simpler way to create rules is to use the Sort Mail From and Sort Mail To commands on the Mail menu.

.topic 6513

(Route : File Menu, Search Command, Save Search As Button)

The Save Search dialog box allows you to save the criteria that you have set up for a particular search so that you can easily retrieve the settings for later use.



Enter the name that you'd like to save the current search criteria as in the Save Search As text box. Click OK to save your search.

You will be able to add searches that you do save as buttons on the toolbar.


.topic 6321

(Route : Settings Menu, Communications Command, Edit Button (Modem Connection highlighted), Modem Button, Save As Button)

The Save Modem Settings dialog box allows you to save the current settings in the Modem Setting dialog box so that they can easily be applied to other connection cards.



Enter the name that you'd like to give the setting into the Save modem settings as text box. You can enter any name you like here, but it's a good idea to name it after your modem because this name will appear in the modems list.

When you have entered a name, click the OK button to save it.


.topic 6499

(Route : Settings Menu, Scheduler Command)

The Scheduler dialog box shows the actions that you have set up to run at specified times.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


The list shows the command that is scheduled, the time it is scheduled to run, the last time it was scheduled and the next time it is scheduled to be run. The scheduler has a resolution of one minute so an action that is scheduled to be run at 4.15 will be run at some time between 4.15 and 4.16.

You can add a new scheduler item by clicking the Add button, delete the currently highlighted item by clicking the Remove button or edit the currently highlighted item by clicking the Edit button. If Ameol was not running when a scheduled action was due to run you will be prompted to confirm you want them to run now, you can make Ameol automatically run missed scheduled items by selecting the Run missed items on startup option.

You can disable the current scheduler item by clicking the Disable button. A disabled command will not be executed.

The Run Now button will execute the selected command immediately.

Note that a blink will only be performed if you schedule one - if you add an item like "Get New Mail" to the scheduler it will be added to the outbasket at the selected time but a blink will not be automatically carried out to action that command.

.topic 6228

(Route : File Menu, Scripts Command)

The Script dialog box shows the list of scripts that can be added to the Out Basket as actions to be run when Ameol connects to the CIX Conferencing system.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


This dialog also allows you to add a new script by clicking the New button or edit a script by clicking the Edit button. The Remove button will delete the currently highlighted script.

The scripts you can add to the Out Basket by clicking the Add button are listed below. Some of these scripts will require you to provide additional information before they are added to the Out Basket.

		Change your CIX Conferencing password
		Check CIX Conferencing mail forwarding status
		CIX Conferencing FFIND command
		CIX Conferencing FILESTATS command
		Consolidate all conferences
		Download a list of joined conferences
		Execute ip> archie
		Fetch web page via CIX Conferencing ip> system
		Find a PGP keyfile
		Find CIX User information
		Finger an address via email
		Finger an external address
		Get a range of messages from CIX Conferencing
		Get any files in ip> directory
		Get batched FTP file from a site
		Get CIX Conferencing "allaboutme" information
		Get CIX Conferencing billing details
		Get FTP file by email
		Get FTP files from a site to ameol\download
		Get FTP recursive directory of a UNIX site
		Get FTP site directory
		Get PC time/date from CIX Conferencing
		Get profile.txt
		Get RFC specification
		Install default profile
		Install debugging profile
		List files in an archive on CIX Conferencing
		Mail a local file
		Microsoft Knowledge Base articles by mail
		Put profile.txt
		Reset CIX Conferencing pointers back a number of days
		Restore pointers
		Set CIX Conferencing absence notification
		Set mail forwarding to CIX Conferencing mailbox
		Set mail forwarding to IP mailbox
		Show conference moderators
		Show joined groups in Newsnet
		Skip back a few messages in a conference/topic
		Text search on CIX Conferencing

.topic 6229

(Route : File Menu, Scripts Command, Edit Button)



The Script Edit dialog box allows you to add or change a script file that is shown in the Scripts list.

To edit a script file enter the required commands in the edit window. You will need knowledge of the Ameol script language to edit the scripts.

To add or change a description, enter a new description in the Description text box. When you have finished editing the script entry click the OK button.



.topic 6185

(Route : Mail Menu, Send File Command)

The Send File dialog allows you to send a file from your computer in Binary or Uuencoded format.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


In the Filename text box enter the path and filename of the file that you wish to send. You can click the Filename button if you wish to locate the file on your computer.

In the Send To text box enter the nickname of the CIX Conferencing user or the full e-mail address that you'd like to send the file to. Click the Send To button if you'd like to choose the address from the address book.

Now select the format to send the file in. Note that you will only be able to send a file in Binary format to another user of the CIX Conferencing system.

You can also choose to Send (an automatically generated) cover note. If you choose the Delete after mailing option, the file will be deleted from your mail directory on CIX Conferencing after it has been sent.

Click the OK button to send the file the next time Ameol blinks (or connects to the CIX Conferencing system for files sent in Binary format).

If you are sending a file from your mail directory (e.g. you have selected Mail|Directory|Send File to get to this dialog) some of the above options will be unavailable.


.topic 6191

(Route : Settings Menu, Signatures Command)

The Signature dialog box allows you to view your current signature and add new ones to the current list.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


To view a signature, choose the signature from the Signatures list. The signature will be shown in the main body of the dialog box.

To add a new signature click the New button and to remove the current signature click the Delete button. To make a signature that will apply to all conferences and topics, name it GLOBAL.

We strongly recommend that you do not create a signature of more than one line for CIX conference messages, and not more than three lines for Internet messages. Any more than this is considered bad etiquette.

.topic 6674

(Route : Mail Menu, Sort Mail From Command)

The Sort Mail From dialog box allows you to set up a rule based on the From: address of the current viewed mail message.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


You can choose to move messages from this address to an existing folder or to a new folder.
Ameol can scan the current mail folder for other messages from this address and sort them into the selected folder. To do this select the Move other messages from this user to the specified folder option.

.topic 6675

(Route : Mail Menu, Sort Mail To Command)

The Sort Mail To dialog box allows you to set up a rule based on the To: address of the current viewed mail message.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


You can choose to move messages to this address to an existing folder or to a new folder.
Ameol can scan the current mail folder for other messages to this address and sort them into the selected folder. To do this select the Move other messages from this user to the specified folder option.

.topic 6700

(Route : Help Menu, Show Startup Wizard Command)

This set of dialog boxes will help you get started with Ameol and set up your Profiles.

.topic 6612

(Route : Help Menu, Submit Report Command)

The Submit Problem Report dialog box allows you to post a report about a problem, question or request  in relation to Ameol.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


In the Choose the nature of the report area select whether this report is about a bug, a request for future improvements, a query or an addon.

Also select whether the report should be considered of high, medium or low priority.

Now enter a description of your problem. You should include all relevant details but try to keep the report short and please don't include any Microsoft Dr. Watson logs.

When you have finished your report click the Save button. Your report will be posted the next time Ameol connects.


If you are unable to connect to send a report:

You can contact our Support department - please click here.


.topic 6432

(Route : News Menu, Subscribe Command)

The Subscribe dialog box allows you to retrieve newsgroup articles from a specified newsgroup.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

The New Server item is not available in conferencing-only installations.

It also allows you to set options about what should be retrieved and from where.

In the Subscribe to newsgroup text box enter the full name of the newsgroup from which you'd like to receive articles.

In the On First Visit to Newsgroup area select how many article headers you'd like to retrieve. You can choose to retrieve the 50 most recent headers or all of the available headers.

If you'd like to retrieve the full articles rather than just the headers, then select the Retrieve full articles option. Bear in mind that if you are joining a busy newsgroup retrieving a large number of articles could involve downloading several megabytes of data.

You can specify which news server this newsgroup's articles should be retrieved from in the News Server text box.

Click OK to subscribe to the newsgroup the next time you blink Ameol.

.topic 6701

(You will see this dialog if you try to post a message as a Say in a Support conference).



The Support Conference Prompt dialog box warns you that if you try to post a message using the Say command in a Support conference on the CIX Conferencing system, your message may be withdrawn. The preferred method for creating a message in Support conferences is by using the Submit Report command from the Help menu.

Click the Send Report button to send a report. You can post a Say by clicking the Use Say button.


.topic 6684

(Route: Settings menu, Communications command, Connections tab, New button)




Choose the modem you wish to use from the drop-down list.
The modems available are those defined in the Modems applet in Control Panel.

.topic 6648

(Route : File Menu, Terminal Command, Connect Button)

The Terminal window gives you a text interface to an on-line service such as the CIX Conferencing system.



To use this interface you must use the text commands required by the service or machine that you are connected to.

The Upload button will allow you choose a file from your computer to upload to the service or machine to which you are connected.  The Download button will allow you to specify the location on your hard disk for the file that you are downloading to be saved into.

If you want to record all the text that appears in the Terminal window, click the Open Log button. This will allow you to save this data to a file that you specify. The Pause button will stop information being saved to this file until you click it again. (When you click the Pause button the caption will change to Resume.)

.topic 6413

(Route : File Menu, Terminal Command)

The Terminal Connect dialog box shows the current terminal connections that have been configured.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


Terminal connections allow you to log on to a remote service (such as CIX conferencing) without going through the Ameol interface.

To use a terminal connection, choose one from the list and click the Connect button.

To set up a new connection click the New button and to remove the currently highlighted connection click the Delete button. If you want to edit the properties of an currently highlighted terminal connection, click the Edit button.

.topic 6167

(Route : Help Menu, Tip of the Day Command)



This dialog box displays a random tip about Ameol or CIX whenever it is opened. When "Show Tips" is enabled this dialog will pop up whenever Ameol is started.

.topic 6231

(Route : Conf Menu, Upload File Command)

The Upload File dialog box allows you to upload a file for inclusion in a conference topic's file list.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


Note that you can't directly add a file to a file list unless you are the moderator of the conference.

The Conference and Topic lists boxes will display the names of the current conference and topic.

In the File to upload text box enter the name of the path and filename of the file that you wish to upload. Click the Folder button if you want to locate the file.

You should now enter a short description of the file in the main body of the dialog box. This description will be used by the moderator of the conference when it is added to the file list. You can add a signature to the end of your description by choosing one from the Signature list.

When you click the Save button your file will be uploaded and a message sent to the moderator asking for the file to be added to the file list.

Note: This dialog box allows you upload a file to a CIX Conference and should not be confused with the Upload File command in the Mail Menu which will upload a file to your CIX Conferencing Mail Directory.

.topic 6543

(Route: Settings Menu, Users Command)

The Users dialog box shows the user accounts that are currently set up in Ameol.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


You can show permissions by user account by choosing the Show By Users option or user accounts by permission by choosing the Show by Permissions option.

In the first case, the user account will appear in the upper list and the permissions for each account in the lower list. In the second case the full list of permissions will appear in the upper list and the user accounts that have the currently highlighted permission will appear in the lower list.

To add a new user account click the Add button. To remove the currently highlighted user account click the Remove button.

To edit the currently highlighted user account click the Edit button.

The Administrator account is the first (default) account set up in Ameol and has permissions to add and delete users, run purge etc.

.topic 1021
The route shown on the help file page for a dialog box shows you how to get to the current dialog box. Note that the route shown is often NOT the only way to get to any particular dialog box

.topic 1002


.topic 113
This list displays the custom dictionaries that you currently have installed. If you want to add new dictionaries to the spell checker you can do this by going to the Settings menu and selecting Preferences. Click on the spelling Tab Page and click the Add button to add an existing dictionary file or New to create a new one.

.topic 114
This list box shows all of the windows in Ameol that use fonts that you can customise.

.topic 115
This list box displays the directories that Ameol will save different file types to. For instance you can make Ameol download all files with a .ZIP extension into a directory called 'Zips'.

.topic 116
This list box will display the authors names for previous messages that you have printed by author. For instance, if you previously selected all the messages posted by 'user_name' then the next time you open this dialog box 'user_name' will appear as an item in this list. You can also type a new name into this box.

.topic 117
This list shows the available emulations that you can use with the terminal window. The type that you need to use will depend on the service that you are connecting to.

.topic 118
This list shows a list of the available buttons that relate to the category highlighted in the Categories list. Next to each button is a short description of its function.

.topic 1081
This is a list of available blink types. You can add, edit or remove blink types by using the New, Edit and Remove buttons.

.topic 1060
This list box shows the news servers you have configured within Ameol.

.topic 119
This list divides the available commands within Ameol into 15 groups. This makes searching for a particular button much quicker. Click on the category to see the associated buttons in the Buttons list.

.topic 1140
This is a list of CC: addresses for the current message.

.topic 1159
The list of CIX Conferencing user names with their full names.

.topic 120
This list box allows you to adjust the age of mail deleted. You can choose to clear mail older than 0 - 7 days.

.topic 1165
This list allows you to select how often read mail is cleared from your Internet mail server. If you choose Scheduled a button   will open the scheduler so you can choose to clear mail at a different interval to those preset within Ameol.

.topic 1164
This list allows you to select how often read mail is cleared from CIX Conferencing. If you choose Scheduled a button   will open the scheduler so you can choose to clear mail at a different interval to those preset within Ameol.

.topic 121
This list shows all of the commands currently held in the Scheduler along with the time period it is scheduled for, the last time it was run and the next time that it is due to be run.

.topic 122
This list shows the commands in Ameol to which you can assign keystroke combinations.

.topic 123
This list shows the current 'Connection Cards' that have been setup to work with Ameol. These can be modem settings or Internet connections.

.topic 1300
This area shows you the last date when a message was added to this conference. You should also check the 'Last downloaded..' line at the bottom of the dialog to ensure your list is not too out of date.

.topic 124
This list shows the conferences to which you are currently joined. Highlighting a conference in this list will show the participants or moderators in that conference in the list to the right.

.topic 1156
This is a list of all open and closed conferences hosted by CIX Conferencing.

.topic 1144
This is a list of the conferences you are joined to. The current conference is automatically selected.

.topic 125
This shows a list of the available connections cards that can be used to connect to the CIX Conferencing system.

.topic 1019
This shows a list of the folders in your In Basket. Choose the folder into which you would like to place your local topic from this list.

.topic 126
This shows the current Blink options that have been set. You can view the properties of any of these options by clicking the Edit button. To create a new option click New.

.topic 127
This shows the list of currently installed custom dictionaries. The check box to the left of the item indicates whether that dictionary is used by the spell checker when it is invoked.

.topic 128
This shows the days in the month currently selected in the Month list to the right.

.topic 129
This list has the available encoding options for files that are attached to messages. You can choose any of these to be the default format for all file attachments.

.topic 1157
This column lists the conference descriptions. From this you can gain an idea as to whether the conference will be of interest to you.

.topic 1250
You can specify your location here. To create a new location click the Location button. Locations are used to specify your location, whether you need to dial a number for an outside line and your Mercury PIN.

.topic 130
This list allows you to choose the direction of the search. Current to First Message will go backwards through the messages from the currently selected message to the first. Current to Last Message will go forwards through the messages from the currently selected message to the last. Entire Folder will search every message in the folder regardless of the message that is currently selected.

.topic 132
You can choose the method of encoding for your file attachment using this list. The default encoding method will be applied unless you choose another from this list.

.topic 133
This list shows the Dial-Up Networking or Remote Access Server entries currently setup in your operating system. For details about setting up these entries refer to the documentation for your operating system.

.topic 134
This list shows the actions made by Ameol and also indicates whether Ameol was successful or had problems with any of these actions. You can set the actions that are recorded in the event log by clicking the Options button.

.topic 135
When exporting messages you can opt to export a range of messages written by a particular author. If you have exported messages by author before, their names will appear in this list.

If you're exporting messages from a CIX Conference topic you can enter the CIX Conferencing nickname of the author. If you're exporting mail or newsgroup messages you will need to enter the full e-mail address.

.topic 136
From this list choose the Folder or Topic that you wish to export from. This list shows a tree view in the same form as that shown in the In Basket.

.topic 137
If you have exported from Ameol before, then the files that you have exported to will appear in this list. If you haven't exported before, or if you want to export to a new file, type the file name here. Click the browse button to export to an existing file that you have not exported to before.

.topic 138
This is a list of the files currently held in the file list. This list is only as up-to-date as the last time it was downloaded from CIX Conferencing. To get the most recent version of the file list, click the Update button. The new list will be retrieved next time Ameol blinks.

.topic 139
This list shows the file list for the current topic. The list that you see is a representation of the actual list downloaded from the CIX Conferencing system, so it will only be as up-to-date as the last time you downloaded the list. Click the Update button to retrieve the latest version of the list the next time you blink Ameol.

.topic 1026
This list shows the files that are in the Mugshot directory of your Ameol setup. Files for use in the mugshot viewer should be in bitmap (.bmp) or GIF (.gif) format.

.topic 140
Enter the characters that you wish to search for here. This can be a whole word or a part of a word.  If you have performed a search before, then the words that you search on will be in this list.

.topic 141
If you have run a search before, the previous words that you searched for will be in this list. If this is the first time you have done a search or if you want to perform a new search, type the word (or characters) that you would like search for in this box.

.topic 142
This list shows the folders and topic as shown in the In Basket. To select the entire database go to the very top of the list and select the database symbol

.topic 143
This list shows the list of available fonts currently installed on your system.

.topic 144
Choose the style for your chosen font from this list. The contents of this list will depend on the font that you have chosen. Some fonts will only have the regular style.

.topic 145
Select the topic or folder from which you would like to print messages from this list box. This list contains the folders and topics as shown in the In Basket.

.topic 1161
Select the Ameol user name to import.

.topic 146
This list shows the names and fax numbers currently held in the Fax Mail Address Book.
This list is not sorted.

.topic 1085
This area lists the headers already set up within Ameol.

.topic 147
This list contains the various import options for Ameol.  Select the type of data you wish to import from this list and then click OK.

.topic 1220
If you have previously imported some scratchpads their names will be in this list box. If you are importing a new file, type the name of that file here.

.topic 1162
Select the database into which the Ameol database should be imported.

.topic 148
This list shows the addons that are currently installed to run with Ameol. You can add or remove addons by using the Add and Remove buttons.

.topic 149
This list shows all the items in Ameol that you can specify a colour for in addition to the colour settings that you can apply through your operating system.

.topic 150
This list shows the languages currently available for the spell checker.

.topic 1168
The contents of your mail directory.

.topic 1190
Select the mail folder to move messages to.

.topic 151
Use this list to select the modem that you have attached to your system. This list is limited to the modem configuration details thatAmeol has available.

.topic 1093
This list shows the moderators of a CIX Conference. The list will only be as up-to-date as the last time it was downloaded from CIX Conferencing. To update the list, click the Update button. The latest moderators list will be retrieved the next time Ameol blinks.

.topic 152
If you want to schedule an event to happen during a certain month, select the month from this list.

.topic 1170
This is a list of the current user name/mugshot associations. To associate a new mugshot with a username click Add.

.topic 153
This list shows the CIX Conferencing nicknames of those you are about to add to a CIX Conference. You will only be able to add participants to a conference if you are a moderator of the conference.

.topic 1238
These are the addresses in this address book group. Use the Add and Remove buttons to change the contents of the group.

.topic 1243
These are the addresses you can add to the address book group.

.topic 154
Enter a list of newsgroups that you wish to include or exclude from the list of all newsgroups in this list. Whether the newsgroups are included or excluded will depend on the option that you have selected above.


.topic 1171
The list of usenet newsgroups carried by the selected news server.

.topic 1237
The list of new newsgroups on the selected news server.

.topic 1100
This is the list of news servers configured within Ameol. To add or remove a server from this list open the Servers tab on the Usenet selection of the Settings menu.

.topic 1218
The list of items in your out basket. Apart from items put on Hold, they will be executed next blink.

.topic 155
Choose the item that you wish to add to the header or footer from this list. Click the Add button to include it in the header or footer. You will see a preview of your changes in the Sample area.

.topic 156
This list shows the participants of a CIX Conference. The list will only be as up-to-date as the last time it was downloaded from CIX Conferencing. To update the list, click the Update button. The latest participants list will be retrieved the next time Ameol blinks.

.topic 157
This shows the available permissions that you can apply to a user account under Ameol. The list will be at the top of the dialog if the option Show By Permissions is selected and at the bottom if Show By Users is selected.

.topic 158
Shows a list of the communication ports set up on your computer. Select one of these for use with your modem. Make sure that the port that you have selected is not being used by another piece of equipment.

.topic 159
Choose the service that you want to use with this Internet connection card from this list.

.topic 1254
Select the file transfer protocol you wish to use from this list.

.topic 1257
Select the Reply To address from those offered in this list box. The last Reply To address entered here is remembered on a per-mailbox basis, or you can choose your default Reply To address.

.topic 160
This list shows the CIX Conferencing user resumes currently held by Ameol. Note that any resume will only be as up-to-date as the last time it was downloaded from CIX Conferencing. To update a resume click the Update button.

.topic 1275
This option controls what happens when a mail message asking for a return receipt is received into this folder. The options are to Ask whether to send an acknowledgement, to automatically send an acknowledgement or to never send an acknowledgement.

.topic 161
This displays any rules that have been applied to this folder.

.topic 162
This list shows the rules that have been applied to the highlighted folder in the Folders tree view control above.

.topic 163
Shows the actions that you can run using the scheduler.

.topic 164
This list shows the name of any search that you have saved the settings for. To save a search for future use, set the search criteria the click the Save Search As button

.topic 165
This list displays the available scripts that you can run on the CIX Conferencing system.
Scripts include such things as changing your password and retrieving billing details.

.topic 1260
Choose whether this report is of low, medium or high priority.

.topic 166
Select the name of the signature that you wish to add to the current message from this list. To set up a signature, select Signatures from the Settings menu.

.topic 167
Shows the list of currently saved signatures.

.topic 168
Select the size of the font that you wish to apply using this list. The available sizes displayed will depend on the font chosen from the Font list.

.topic 169
Select the speed you wish to use with your modem from this list. Note you should not select a speed that is beyond the capabilities of your modem.

.topic 170
When the spell checker finds a word that it suspects is incorrectly spelled, it will post any suggestions that it has for the correct spelling in this list. To correct the spelling, select one of these suggestions or enter the correct spelling in the Change To field.

.topic 1206
The list of terminal session settings within Ameol.

.topic 1139
This is the list of To addresses for the current message.

.topic 171
This list shows the topics available within the CIX Conference that you have currently selected.

.topic 1149
The list of CIX Conferencing conferences and topics you are joined to. Select the topic to export the selected file to from this list.

.topic 172
This list shows the Types and Settings that have been established for newsgroup article headers. The information that appears in this list will appear in the newsgroups articles that you post from Ameol. For instance, the Organisation type/setting will appear in the article header as;

		Organisation: Compulink Information eXchange

.topic 173
This list shows a list of CIX Conferencing user nicknames next to the file that is associated with it. Check the Show author's mugshot when message is displayed option in the Preferences dialog to enable the mugshot viewer.

.topic 174
This list shows the current user accounts that have been set up for Ameol. Click the Edit button to see the properties set for the highlighted user account.

.topic 1211
These lists allow you to choose what Ameol will do after an action is performed on a message. For example when marking a message ignored you may want to move to the next unread message, but when tagging messages you may want to stay at the same message.

.topic 175
Use this list to select the year in which you'd like to schedule an event.

.topic 1003


.topic 176
This text box contains the message that is sent back by your modem on the receipt of a valid command.

.topic 177
You can use this text box to specify a different location for your addon files. When Ameol is started in will look in this directory for the addon files that you currently have installed.

.topic 178
Enter an e-mail address into this text box.

.topic 1166
Enter the address of the Internet service you want to connect to.

.topic 1229
Enter the area code of the service you wish to connect to.

.topic 179
Enter the directory into which you'd like Ameol to save archive files. Ameol will save the last ten connection logs, scratchpads and new message files in the directory you choose.

.topic 180
Enter the text of your message in this text box. If you use the signature function this will appear at the end of the text that you enter in this text box.

.topic 181
Enter the path and filename of the file that you wish to attach to your message here.

.topic 1287
Enter the directory to which you would like Ameol to save attachments.

.topic 182
If you want to search for messages written by a particular person, enter the name of that author in this text box. In the case of CIX Conferencing conference messages you can use the CIX Conferencing nickname. For e-mail and newsgroup articles, use the full address of the author.

.topic 183
Click on the colour that you'd like to use as the background colour for the terminal window here. If the colour that you want doesn't appear in the eight sample colour boxes click the Custom button to choose another colour.

.topic 1303
Enter any e-mail addresses that you would like your message copied to in here. You can either type the addresses in directly, leaving a space between separate addresses, or click the BCC: button to choose the addresses from the Address Book. Unlike CC, BBC addresses are not listed in the email header so the other addressees do not know that the message has been sent to any of the addresses listed in the BCC field.

.topic 184
This text box allows you to set the margin from the bottom of the paper. The printer will not print beneath this point.

.topic 185
Set the amount of text that is stored in the buffer in this text box. The buffer stores a history of the commands that are sent to and from an on-line service when you use the terminal window. You can use the scroll bar in the terminal window to review the text that has appeared in the terminal window up to the size of the buffer.

.topic 186
Enter any e-mail addresses that you would like your message copied to in here. You can either type the addresses in directly, leaving a space between separate addresses, or click the CC: button to choose the addresses from the Address Book.

.topic 188
Enter the text that you would like to appear in the centre of your header/footer in this field. You can also enter the page number, date or time by clicking one of the picture buttons or choose from the drop-down list.

.topic 189
Enter the correct spelling of the selected word here. Alternatively click on one of the suggestions.

.topic 1018
This text box will contain the name of the current conference topic. If this not the conference topic that you wish to add your comment to, then you can change this text.

.topic 1082
These are the standard colours available for assigning to sections of Ameol. To create your own colour click the Custom button.

.topic 1141
This is the number of the message you are commenting to. To view that message click on the upward pointing arrow.

.topic 190
Enter any comments that you would like to attach to the Address Book record here.

.topic 191
Enter the name of the CIX Conference that you would like to join here.

.topic 192
This text box contains the message that is sent back by your modem when it successfully connects to an on-line service.

.topic 193
Enter the number of copies you would like to print here. You can also use the up and down buttons to the side to increment the number of copies.

.topic 1230
Enter the country code that is dialled to access this service.

.topic 194
When you enter a date here, Ameol will retrieve all Newsgroups that have been created after this date.

.topic 195
Enter the format that you would like dates displayed in here. An example of what you might enter is dd/mm/yy hh:mm. This will display the date and time as 24/06/96 11:05.

.topic 196
Enter the date that you would like the range of messages to start from in this text box.

.topic 197
Enter the date that you would like the range of messages to end at in this text box.

.topic 198
Use this text box to specify how old messages should be (in days) before they are purged from your message database. You can use the up and down buttons to increment the number of days.

.topic 199
Enter the directory which you would like Ameol to save decoded attachments into.

.topic 1203
Here you enter the the text of your report. Please be as descriptive as possible. If the report is about a reproducible problem please include the steps taken to reproduce it. Please do not include Dr. Watson logs or Windows95 stack dumps unless requested by a member of the Ameol support team.

.topic 200
This text box contains the characters that are sent to your modem by Ameol that tell it to use pulse dialling. These characters are sent before any dialling information.

.topic 201
This text box contains the characters that are sent to your modem by Ameol that tell it to use tone dialling. These characters are sent before any dialling information.

.topic 202
Enter the path and directory name into which you would like Ameol to save the file.

.topic 203
Enter the directory into which Ameol will store the data files for this user account.

.topic 204
Enter the number of seconds after which you would like Ameol to disconnect if there has been no activity. This will apply to any on-line service that Ameol is connected to.

.topic 205
Enter the name of the file that you would like to download in this text box.

.topic 206
Enter the directory into which you'd like Ameol to save any files that are downloaded.

.topic 207
Enter your full e-mail address in this text box.

.topic 208
When you send a file as an attachment to an e-mail message you can opt to split the file into several parts. You can specify the maximum number of lines in each part in this text box.

.topic 209
Use this box to enter a description of the file you are uploading to a CIX Conference. The moderator of the conference will use this description when the file is added to the conference's file list.

.topic 210
Enter the name of the custom blink that you are about to create in this text box. This name will appear in the list of available blink types.

.topic 211
Enter the name of the file that you wish to remove from your CIX Conferencing mail directory in this text box.

.topic 212
This text box contains the message that is output by your modem on receipt of a command that it does not recognise.

.topic 213
This text box contains the command that is sent to your modem by Ameol to return it to its command mode.

.topic 214
Enter the filename extension (type) that you would like Ameol to save to a particular directory in this text box.

.topic 215
Enter the text of the message you wish to fax in this box.

.topic 216
Enter the name of the file that you wish to upload in this text box.

.topic 217
Enter the name of the file in this text box.

.topic 218
This text box contains the name of the currently selected file in your CIX Conferencing mail directory.

.topic 219
This list shows the contents of your CIX Conferencing mail directory. Note that this directory is only as up-to-date as the last time that it was updated from the CIX Conferencing system. To update the list that Ameol displays, click the Update button.

.topic 220
Enter the word or sequence of characters that you wish to search for in this text box.

.topic 1191
Enter the name of the new folder into this text box.

.topic 221
Click on the colour that you'd like to use as the foreground (text) colour for the terminal window here. If the colour that you want doesn't appear in the eight sample colour boxes click the Custom button to choose another colour.

.topic 222
Enter the name of the author (that appears in the from: line of an e-mail header) whose messages you wish to apply a rule to.

.topic 223
Enter your name and any other details that you would like to appear in the From: line on your fax message.

.topic 224
This text box shows the current name of the file that you wish to rename.

.topic 226
Enter your full name (not e-mail address) here.

.topic 1241
Enter the real name associated with the email address here.

.topic 1236
Enter the name for this group.

.topic 227
This text box contains the command that is sent to your modem to make it 'hang up' the telephone connection. This command will only be used if the Carrier Detect option is not selected.

.topic 228
Enter the number of seconds that you wish a CIX Conferencing user's mugshot to be displayed. This will only apply if you have checked the Show author's mugshot when message is displayed check box. To stop the mugshot from disappearing at all enter 0 (zero) here.

.topic 229
When an e-mail address is entered with no domain name i.e. Nothing after the @, Ameol will append the domain name that is entered here. For instance if you specify cix.co.uk, then you need only enter a CIX Conferencing user's nickname to send an e-mail.

.topic 1160
The Ameol data directory to import from. Use the browse button if the correct data directory is not displayed.

.topic 230
This text box contains the command that is sent to your modem by Ameol to initialise it.

.topic 231
This text box allows you to set the margin from the left of the paper. The printer will not print to the left this point.

.topic 233
Enter the text that you would like to appear on the left of your header/footer in this field. You can also enter the page number, date or time by clicking one of the picture buttons or choose from the drop-down list.

.topic 234
You can set the maximum number of entries (lines) held in the event log in this text box. When the event log reaches this limit the oldest event will be deleted so that the event log will be maintained at this number of entries.

.topic 235
In this text box, enter the maximum size of a message that you are prepared to download from any Usenet newsgroups. Since busy newsgroups can lead to very large downloads, this is a useful feature if you want to restrict download times. Note that this restriction will only apply to newsgroup articles retrieved via the CIX Conferencing system. It is not possible to restrict downloads through an Internet service.

.topic 236
This text box contains the message that will be sent by your modem if the telephone number that it is dialling is engaged.

.topic 238
Enter the name of the of the new user account in this text box. When Ameol is started you will need to enter this name at the login prompt to start Ameol using this user account.

.topic 237
Enter the your login name for the mail server in this text box.

.topic 239
Enter the name of the mail box that you wish to create in this text box.

.topic 240
You can set the maximum message size that you are prepared to retrieve from the CIX Conferencing system here. This limit does not apply to messages that you send to CIX Conferencing nor does it apply to e-mail messages or newsgroup articles that you send or receive.

.topic 241
Enter in this text box the PIN number that you need to add to the telephone number being dialled to activate your Mercury account.

.topic 242
Enter the text of the message can be edited in this box.

.topic 243
Enter the words or characters that you would like to search for in the body of a message in this text box.

.topic 244
Enter the number of messages that you would like to retain in this text box. After purging the folder or topic will be maintained at this number of messages.

.topic 245
Enter the directory in which you would like Ameol to store your message database files in this text box.

.topic 246
Enter the message number that you would like your range of messages to start at in this text box.

.topic 247
Enter the message number that you would like your range of messages to end at in this text box.

.topic 1092
This is a list of moderators for the selected conference.

.topic 248
Enter the name of the directory in which you would like Ameol to search for mugshot picture files.

.topic 249
Enter the name of your connection card here. This name will appear in the lists where you are asked to select a connection method. For instance the properties for a custom blink require you to select a connection type from the Connect With list.

.topic 1079
Enter the CIX Conferencing username you wish to add to the participant list into the upper text box. They will then be added to the list in the lower box and the actions performed on the next blink.

.topic 1244
Enter the CIX Conferencing username you wish to add to the moderator list into the upper text box. They will then be added to the list in the lower box and the actions performed on the next blink.

.topic 250
Enter the name of your new signature here. This name will be used to identify this signature when you apply a signature to any type of message that you are sending.

.topic 251
If you want to retrieve messages for this newsgroup from a particular news server, then enter the name of the server here.

.topic 252
This field shows the name of the news group that you are posting the new article to.

.topic 1174
Enter the text to filter here.

.topic 1282
This field allows you to change the news server port. This is usually set to 119.

.topic 1065
This text box allows you to enter the address of the news server from which you want to collect news. If you are editing an existing entry the news server name will be entered here.

.topic 253
Enter your CIX Conferencing nickname here.

.topic 254
This text box contains the message that is sent by your modem when the connection to an on-line service is lost.

.topic 255
Shows the word that the spell checker suspects is incorrectly spelt.

.topic 256
Enter the fax number of the person that you wish to send a fax message to here.

.topic 257
Specify the number of times you would like to retry dialling the specified number if an error occurs.

.topic 1175
Enter any parameters required for the external program here.

.topic 258
Enter a password for this user. If you do not require password protected access for this user you can leave this section blank. Any characters typed will be hidden (displayed as asterisks).

.topic 259
If Ameol could not find a default browser on your system, or if you prefer to use another web browser with Ameol, enter the path and filename of the browsing software in this text box. You can locate the file by clicking the folder icon. When you come across a URL in a message it will be highlighted, click on it to open your web browser at the highlighted link.

.topic 260
Enter the PGP (Pretty Good Privacy) code for the person in the current Address Book entry here. Note - Ameol does not use this information and does not directly support PGP.

.topic 261
Enter the phone number of the service that you would like to connect to here.

.topic 262
Enter the name of your POP3 mail server here. Contact your Internet service provider if you're not sure of the name.

.topic 263
Select an item from the commands list and then click in this text box. Now press the shortcut key or keys that you would like to assign to this command and they will be displayed in this text box.

.topic 264
You can specify the characters that Ameol will recognise as quote delimiters here. When Ameol encounters any of these characters as the first character in the line of a message it can display that line of text in a different colour.

.topic 265
Specify the number of messages you would like Ameol to download when you join a CIX Conference.

.topic 266
Specify the text you'd like to replace the found text with here.

.topic 267
Enter the e-mail address that you would like any response to this message sent to. By default it will be filled out with the e-mail address specified in your preferences.

.topic 1248
Enter the e-mail address to which you would like any responses to messages posted in this group sent. By default it will be filled out with the e-mail address specified in your preferences.

.topic 1235
Enter the e-mail address to which you would like responses sent when sending mail via an Internet provider. This can be over-ridden on a per-message basis by changing the Reply To field of the New Mail Message dialog.

.topic 268
This text box contains the command that Ameol will send to your modem to reset it.

.topic 269
Enter the times (in 24 hour format) that you would like to restrict Usenet access to in this text box. You will not receive Usenet newsgroup articles or headers outside these times.

.topic 270
This contains the body text of the resume.

.topic 271
In this text box, enter the directory in which you would like Ameol to look for, and store, resume files.

.topic 272
This text box allows you to set the margin from the right of the paper. The printer will not print to the right this point.

.topic 274
Enter the text that you would like to appear on the left of your header/footer in this field. You can also enter the page number, date or time by clicking one of the picture buttons or choose from the drop-down list.

.topic 275
Enter the name that you'd like to save the current modem settings as here. This name will appear in the modems list when you set up a Connection Card.

.topic 276
In this text box, enter the name of the directory in which you'd like Ameol to save Scratchpad files.

.topic 277
In this text box enter the name of the directory in which you'd like Ameol to look for Script files.

.topic 1167
Enter the name of the script to run when connected to this service. Use the Browse button to locate a script.

.topic 1187
Enter the mail address of the person to which you want to send this file.

.topic 278
Enter the setting for a custom message header in this text box. The text you enter here will appear in the custom type field of the messages that you post.

.topic 279
In this text box, enter your signature as you'd like it to appear at the end of your messages.

.topic 280
Enter the name of your Internet service's SMTP server here.

.topic 1265
You can enter an alternate SMTP server in this field. This is useful if you have multiple ISPs which have enabled SPAM mail filtering.

.topic 1274
This box contains the address that incoming messages will need to match before they will be sorted. You can change the address if required.

.topic 281
You can choose a CIX Conferencing script to run from this list. This script will be executed every time a connection is made to the CIX Conferencing system using this connection card.

.topic 282
Enter the subject or title of your message here.

.topic 1221
Enter the text to look for in the Subject line of messages.

.topic 1204
Enter the name of the newsgroup you wish to subscribe to here.

.topic 283
This text box contains the characters that are added to the end of every command that Ameol sends to your modem.

.topic 1322
When threading by subject, Ameol can ignore certain text at the beginning of the subject line. This can be useful when a mail list server adds some standard text in front of each subject line. Enter the text that should be ignored into the text box.

.topic 284
Set the number of text columns that you'd like to appear in the terminal window here. The default setting of 80 should be correct for most services that you connect to using the terminal window.

.topic 285
You can specify an automatic header for your mail or news message here.
  Use the pop-up menu to the right to enter automatic fields for E-mail Address, Full name, Message ID and Message Date.

.topic 1033
This text box allows you to specify how thread linking lines will be drawn in the message window. Enter a figure (pixels) in the text box.  A small figure will give a 'flat' thread structure whereas a large figure will give rise to a steeply stepped structure. 6 is the default setting.

.topic 287
Set the time (in seconds) after which you'd like Ameol to stop connecting to a service that isn't responding.

.topic 1193
Enter the title of your report. Please try to make the title descriptive and not just "Help!" or "Problem".

.topic 1084
This is the name of the terminal setting.

.topic 288
In this text box, enter the name of the recipient of your Fax message as you'd like it to appear on the fax.

.topic 289
In this text box, enter the filename that you'd like to change the selected file in your CIX Conferencing mail directory to.

.topic 290
Enter the e-mail address of the recipient of your message into this text box. You can also choose addresses from the Address Book.

.topic 292
This text box allows you to set the margin from the top of the paper. The printer will not print above this point.

.topic 291
In this text box, enter the text you'd like to search for in the To: line of a message. If this text is found in an incoming message,Ameol will apply the defined rule.

.topic 293
Specify the CIX Conference topic that you'd like to join in this text box.

.topic 1143
Enter the name of your new local topic here.

.topic 294
Enter the type of your custom header in this text box. If you add a new custom header type it will appear in the header of any message that you post.
Examples of custom headers are X-URL: and X-FACE.

.topic 295
In this text box, enter the name of the directory in which you'd like Ameol to look for files to be uploaded.

.topic 296
In this text box enter the User name that is used to log on.

.topic 297
Enter the CIX Conferencing nickname of the person with which you wish to associate the mugshot file.

.topic 298
The contents of this box will depend upon the selections made above,

.topic 1036
This text box sets the number of characters that you can type on a line before Ameol automatically starts a new line. This setting applies to any new message created in Ameol but will not effect any messages that Ameol receives. The default setting is 74 characters.

.topic 1004


.topic 299
The Address Book shows the structure of the addresses that Ameol holds. You can create groups and put individual address book records within these groups. This allows you to structure your address book so that individual entries can easily be found. The columns widths can be change by clicking and dragging the column dividers.

.topic 301
This list shows the folders, conferences and newsgroups as they appear in the In Basket. Select an item from this list to view the rules currently assigned to it or to create a new rule.

.topic 302
This list shows the newsgroups that appear in the In Basket. Select the newsgroup from this list for which you'd like to retrieve new articles.

.topic 303
This list shows the newsgroups that appear in the In Basket. Select the newsgroup from this list for which you'd like to retrieve the full articles for those headers that you have tagged.

.topic 304
This list shows the mail folders that appear in the In Basket. Select the mailbox folder in which you'd like Ameol to store incoming mail messages.

.topic 305
This list shows the folders and newsgroups that appear in the In Basket. Select the folder that you'd like messages moved to when they match the defined rule.

.topic 307
This list shows the folders and newsgroups that appear in the In Basket. Select the folder in which you'd like Ameol to store newsgroups.

.topic 1178
This is a list of your folders and topics. Click on any one of them to view or set the purge options for that item.

.topic 1182
This is a list of your folders and topics, click on any one of them to view or set rules for them.

.topic 1005


.topic 1255
When checked the buttons on the toolbar will have a raised `3D' appearance.

.topic 309
If this is checked then after you apply the Tag Message command (select Tag from Message Menu or press T) to tag a Newsgroup article header, then you will advance to the next article header in the list. If it is not checked, then after you have tagged the highlighted header the highlight will not move to the next article header.

.topic 1296
Select this option to use the alternate message window layout. The alternate layout has the min-inbasket stretching down the full left hand side of the message window. The standard layout has the mini-inbasket only going down to the bottom of the thread pane. Note that you must close and restart Ameol after making this change for it to take effect.

.topic 1034
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to automatically run any scheduled items that have been missed when Ameol is started.

.topic 310
If you check this box, new messages will be appended to the end of an existing file. If this box is not checked the entire file will be overwritten with the new messages that you're exporting.

.topic 1064
This check box will make Ameol apply any existing rules to the imported messages.

.topic 1025
Check this box if you'd like the file that you're importing messages from to be copied into an archive file after you have finished importing the messages. Archive files are kept in the Archive directory in your Ameol installation and contain previously used scratchpad files.

.topic 311
If you lose your connection to CIX Conferencing while Ameol is blinking, you may fail to receive your messages. Check this box if you'd like Ameol to try and recover any messages you may have failed to download.

.topic 1263
When this options is enabled some error and information dialogs will generate sounds. This checkbox also determines whether Ameol plays sounds when certain events happen, such as new mail arriving or opening and closing Ameol. These sound events can also be disable from the Sounds applet within the Windows Control Panel.

.topic 1035
If you check this box, when you're composing a message, if you indent lines from the left with some spaces or a tab, it ensures that the next line starts indented by the same amount of space.

.topic 312
Check this box if you'd like to run the Spell Checker before you commit a message that you are sending to the Out Basket.

.topic 313
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to fix any errors that are found when doing Check and Repair on your message database.

.topic 314
When you send a message in response to a mail or news message, Ameol can automatically quote the original message. Check this box if you'd like to do this.

.topic 315
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to beep when you've finished reading the unread messages in a topic.

.topic 1129
Selecting this check box allows this user to have Administrator rights - they will be able to add and delete users.

.topic 1130
This check box allows the user to delete old messages using the purge command.

.topic 1131
This check box allows users to create their own folders to store messages.

.topic 1132
This check box allows the user access to Internet services such as mail and news via an Internet provider.

.topic 1134
This check box allows the user to change any Ameol settings.

.topic 316
Check this box if you'd like to receive a copy of any mail that you send.

.topic 317
This check box checks the CTS (Clear to Send) line for your modem.

.topic 318
This check box checks the DCD (Data Carrier Detect) line function for your modem.

.topic 319
Check this box if you'd like the Spell Checker to detect repeated words.

.topic 1259
Choose whether the report concerns a problem, a question, a request for a future enhancement or is about an addon. The addons you have installed are listed at the end of the list.

.topic 320
Check this box if you'd like the folders displayed in the In Basket to collapse when you move on to another folder.

.topic 1325
Select this option if you would like your POP3 mail to be collected after your conferencing collection. Note that this option is only available if you have set up Ameol to collect both internet and conferencing messages.

.topic 321
Check this box if you'd like the Event Log to record communications events.

.topic 322
Check this box if you'd like the CIX Conferencing system to compress your messages before downloading them. This can reduce the time taken to download your messages.

.topic 323
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to record all of the events that occur during a connection and save them to the CONNECT.LOG file.

.topic 324
Check this box if you'd like the Event Log to record all of the actions that take place in your message database.

.topic 325
Check this box if you'd like to remove this file from your CIX Conferencing mail directory after exporting the file.

.topic 1056
Selecting this check box means that Ameol will delete the imported files after the import has completed.

.topic 1028
The Send File command sends files to other users of CIX Conferencing via your CIX Conferencing Mail directory. Check this box if you'd like to delete the file that you are sending from your CIX Conferencing Mail directory after it has been sent.

.topic 327
Check this box if you'd like the file removed from your CIX Conferencing mail directory after you've downloaded it.

.topic 328
Check this box if you'd like to delete your mail from your Internet mail server after you have retrieved it.

.topic 1276
This option allows you to disable all rules.

.topic 329
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to disconnect from any service after a specified period of no activity. You can also specify the delay in seconds.

.topic 330
Check this box if you'd like the Event Log to record disk and file actions.

.topic 331
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to display the first unread message after a blink has been finished.

.topic 1256
When checked Ameol will display descriptive labels beneath the toolbar buttons.

.topic 1052
This check box determines whether a terminal window is displayed when connecting to CIX Conferencing. If a terminal window is open you can view the progress of a blink and interact with it if required.

.topic 333
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to download CIX Conferencing messages when this blink item is used.

.topic 334
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to download full articles from newsgroups rather than just the headers. This check box is only applicable to usenet groups and will be disabled for CIX Conferencing and mail topics. Please note that downloading full headers could take some time if you subscribe to busy newsgroups.

.topic 335
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to download e-mail messages when this blink item is used.

.topic 336
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to download Usenet Newsgroup articles when this blink item is used.

.topic 337
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to download the full articles for those Newsgroup headers you have tagged when this blink item is used.

.topic 338
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to draw 'thread' lines between original and comment messages when they are displayed in the message window.

.topic 339
Check this box if you'd like all the characters that you type in the terminal window to be displayed. If this box in not check you will only see the text that comes back from the computer that you are connected to.

.topic 340
Check this box if you'd like to be able to run a purge on the messages contained in this folder.

.topic 341
Check this box if you'd like the Event Log to record any errors that occur.

.topic 342
Check this box if you would like to add a Line Feed character to any Carriage Return characters that  you receive. Some systems require both characters to start a new line.

.topic 343
Check this box if you would like to add a Line Feed character to any Carriage Return characters that you send. Some systems require both characters to start a new line.

.topic 344
Check this box if you only want to find whole words that match the search criteria. If the box is not checked, Ameol will find all instances of the entered text even if they form part of a longer word.

.topic 345
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to download the participants list for a CIX Conferencing conference when you join it.

.topic 346
Check this box if you'd like the Spell Checker to ignore any words that are composed entirely of capital letters.

.topic 347
Check this box if you like to include message attributes when exporting to a file. Message attributes include things such as whether the message has been read, marked as priority etc. This check box is only available when you choose the CIX Scratchpad export format.

.topic 1202
When checked Ameol will automatically include a list of the addons you use in your report. You should not turn off this option.

.topic 348
Check this box if you'd also like to inspect the CC (Carbon Copy) field when applying this rule.

.topic 349
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to display large buttons.

.topic 350
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to run the attached file after it has been decoded. This will be done by launching the application that is associated with this file type.

.topic 351
Check this box if you want to limit the size of a newsgroup message that Ameol will download. You can set the size (in characters) in the text box beneath.

.topic 1289
This check box marks the selected topic as being a mailing list topic. In these topics outgoing mail is not CCed back to you (as you will get a copy through the list anyway).

.topic 1290
When this option is set all mail created while in this mailbox is sent to the list address entered into the Address field.

.topic 1332
Check this box if you would like Ameol to display an alert when new mail has been downloaded.

.topic 352
Check this box if you'd like the Event Log to record any maintenance operations that are performed on your message database.

.topic 1225
This option allows you to choose to use Ameol when you click on a mail link on a web page.

.topic 1226
This option allows you to choose to use Ameol when you click on a news link on a web page.

.topic 1326
This option will make this Ameol user be the default when opening mail, news or CIX links from outside Ameol (e.g. from a web page). The current default user is shown beneath this button.

.topic 332
Check this box if you want Ameol to mark any new messages to this folder as read.

.topic 354
Check this box if you'd like to mark the current message that has been found and move on to find the next message that matches the search criteria.

.topic 1024
Check this box if you'd like the messages that you're importing to be marked according to their message attributes, if any are included in the file.

.topic 355
Check this box if you'd like your search to match the case of letters as entered in the Find What field.

.topic 356
Check this box if you'd like your search to match full words only. If this box is not checked then Ameol will find instances of the text you entered in the Find What field even if they are part of a longer word.

.topic 357
Check this box if you'd like the Event Log to record any system information messages that are generated whilst Ameol is running.

.topic 1283
When checked, clicking the middle mouse button when the mouse pointer is over the message window will go to the next unread message.

.topic 1192
This check box will sort all other mail from the specified address into the selected folder.

.topic 1330
Check this box if you would like any new mail messages (created with the New Message command from the Mail menu) to use the current message author as the default for the new message.

.topic 1318
Check this button if you would like to use the new toolbar graphics introduced in Ameol 2.51.

.topic 358
Check this box if you don't want a cover page to be added to your fax message. The cover page includes the from, to , recipient and number information.

.topic 1334
Select this option to make Ameol print the selected messages starting each new message on a new page.

.topic 359
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to import messages into your message database whilst still downloading messages from CIX Conferencing or your Internet service.

.topic 360
Check this box if you'd to hear a sound when a beep character is received from the computer that you're connected to.

.topic 1066
This check box controls access to usenet during the weekend. The weekend is defined as 00:00 Saturday to 00:00 Monday.

.topic 361
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to post newsgroup articles (both new articles and follow-up messages) when this blink item is used.

.topic 362
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to send new e-mail messages and replies to other e-mail messages when this blink item is used.

.topic 363
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to carry out any commands specific to the CIX Conferencing system when this blink item is used. This includes any scripts that are added to the Out Basket from the Scripts menu command.

.topic 364
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to process any e-mail messages using this service when this blink item is used.

.topic 365
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to post or retrieve Newsgroup messages using this service when this blink item is used.

.topic 366
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to warn you that there is no file name associated with the attached file that you are decoding. You will be given the opportunity to enter a file name that Ameol can save the file as.

.topic 1261
Select this check box if you would like to add an extra level of protection to your mail folders. With the option enabled you can not delete any mail folders from your in basket.

.topic 367
If you don't check this box, you will be prompted to enter your password each time Ameol logs on to your mail server.

.topic 1328
Check this box if you would like Ameol to remove the encoded text from the message after decoding. This will make the mail message faster to display and the topic file will be compressed more after the next purge.

.topic 368
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to record details of any repairs made to your message database in the REPAIR.LOG file.

.topic 1151
Select this check box to reset the search results page.

.topic 369
Check this box if you'd like to enter your password each time Ameol is restored from being minimised. Note that you must assign a password to your user account for this feature to be enabled.

.topic 370
This check box allows you to restrict access to usenet to the times entered in the text box below.

.topic 371
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to retrieve the full articles from newsgroups rather than just the headers. Bear in mind that this could involve downloading very large amounts of data if you subscribe to busy newsgroups.

.topic 372
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to retrieve tagged newsgroup articles when this blink item is used.

.topic 373
Check this box if you'd like to retrieve brief descriptions of the newsgroups when you download the newsgroups list.

.topic 374
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to retrieve any unread e-mail messages when this blink item is used.

.topic 1281
When this option is enabled Ameol will automatically run missed scheduled items when you start up.

.topic 1329
Check this box if you would like Ameol to save the original message before it decodes it. The message will be saved to the file 'atmailsv.dat' in your user directory (~\ameol2\users\<loginname>). This will allow you to re-import the original message or decode it with an external decoder. Please note that enabling this option will slow down the decode process and increase the amount of disk space used by Ameol.

.topic 375
Check this box if you'd like to extend your search to include the body of newsgroup articles.

.topic 376
Check this box if you'd like to extend your search to include the headers of newsgroup articles.

.topic 1266
Enabling this option will make Ameol search unread messages only.

.topic 1027
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to generate a short cover note to accompany the file that you are sending. If the recipient of your file is also using Ameol, their copy of Ameol will detect that its has received such a cover note and prompt the recipient to download the file from their Mail directory.

.topic 377
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to send any message to which you attach a file as a separate e-mail message. This will not effect the way in which the attached file is encoded.

.topic 1299
When this option is enabled, separators on the toolbars as displayed as visible lines.

.topic 1284
When enabled (and View|Mail/Usenet Header is disabled) Ameol will display brief information about the message at the top of the message window.

.topic 378
Check this box if you would like to show the animated icon on the Blink Status dialog box that is displayed whilst Ameol is blinking.

.topic 379
Check this box if you would like to see the author's mugshot (if you have it) when a message written by them is highlighted in the message window.

.topic 380
Check this box if you'd like to display a clock on the status bar.

.topic 1055
This check box allows you to turn on and off the blink status window. If you turn off the status window the messages which would have been displayed there are displayed on the bottom status line instead.


.topic 381
Check this box to limit the list of fonts to those which have a fixed pitch. Fixed pitch fonts are those where each letter is the same width.

.topic 382
Check this box if you'd like to display icons for mailboxes, newsgroups and CIX Conferencing conferences in the In Basket.

.topic 383
Check this box if you'd like quoted text (those lines that begin with  >) shown in a different colour from standard text.

.topic 1247
Check this box to enable scroll bars on the main Ameol window when a child window (such as the in basket or a message window) goes outside of the main window boundaries.

.topic 384
Check this box if you'd like to see tooltips when you place the mouse over a button. Tooltips are small yellow labels that describe the function of the button.

.topic 385
Check this box if you'd like the Spell Checker to ignore any lines that begin with a > character. Lines that begin in this way are generally text quoted from another message.

.topic 386
Check this box if you'd like Ameol to connect and stay on-line as soon as it is started.

.topic 387
Check this box if you'd like to record start-up and shutdown events in the Event Log.

.topic 388
Check this box if you'd like any messages that are removed during a purge to be stored in a backup file.

.topic 1264
This option allows you to stay connected to CIX Conferencing when your blink has finished. This can be useful if you have some online actions to enter. Type bye and press return to disconnect.

.topic 389
This option will remove the 8th bit from any data that you send using the terminal window. This will provide compatibility with remote computers that don't recognise the 8th bit or use the 8th bit in a non-standard way. This is mainly an historical provision and it is unlikely that you'll have to use it.

.topic 1051
Some messages are sent out in two formats, one section in plain text, the other in HTML. This check box will strip out the HTML portion of the message leaving the text part alone. As the message is duplicated in the text and HTML portions you do not lose any of the message.

.topic 390
Check this box if you'd like the Page Up/Page Down keys to scroll the body of the currently highlighted message in the message window. If this box is not checked these keys will scroll the message titles.

.topic 1294
Check this box if you would like Ameol to use multiple lines for tabbed dialogs.

.topic 391
Check this box if the server that you have specified requires the user to enter a login name and password.

.topic 1223
This option allows you to control how email replies are threaded. With the option on, Ameol will attempt to thread using the subject line if there is no other way to thread the messages, with the option off Ameol will not attempt to thread by subject. Threading by subject can be useful if you frequently correspond with someone who uses a non-threading mail program.

.topic 392
If this box is checked a file list is not attached to this topic.

.topic 393
If this box is checked the topic is read only. This means that you won't be able to post any messages to it.

.topic 394
Check this box if you wish to use the Dial-Up Networking (Windows95) or Remote Access Server (WindowsNT) service that you have set up in your operating system. For help on setting up these services see the help files or manual for your operating system.

.topic 396
Check this box if you'd like to use standard operators such as AND, OR and NOT in your search criteria.

.topic 1059
When a CIX Conferencing message that has been copied from one topic to another is read into Ameol the COPIED FROM line can be suppressed in the thread window. This check box controls this function.

.topic 397
If this box is checked it means that Ameol will no longer download new messages from this conference or topic. Don't check the box if you would like to receive messages from this conference or topic

.topic 1286
Check this box if you would like Ameol to warn you if the subject is empty when saving a mail message.

.topic 398
Check this box if you'd like to be warned that the Out Basket is not empty when you exit Ameol.

.topic 1262
When this option is enabled, a arning box will pop up when saving a mail or news message with a large attachment ("large" is defined as a single message of more than 500 lines, or more than 5 individual messages).

.topic 399
Check this box if you'd like the Event Log to record any warnings that are displayed.

.topic 400
Check this box if you'd like to automatically start a new line of text when the text that you are typing reaches the edge of the Terminal window.

.topic 1006


.topic 401
This option will obtain the full list of available newsgroups from your news server. To view the list of available newsgroups use the Show All Newsgroups command in the News menu.

.topic 402
This option allows you to stop certain newsgroups from appearing in the Newsgroups List (Show All Newsgroups command). It will not stop you receiving messages from that newsgroup if you have subscribed to it. To reject newsgroups, select this option and then type the newsgroups you wish to reject into the list box that appears below.

.topic 403
If you select this option All messages will be included in the current range.

.topic 404
If this option is selected, mail messages will always be sent via the CIX Conferencing system.

.topic 405
If this option is selected, mail messages will always be sent via your Internet Service Provider.

.topic 406
With this option selected, Ameol will always retrieve Usenet articles via the CIX Conferencing system.

.topic 407
With this option selected, Ameol will always retrieve Usenet articles via your Internet Service Provider.

.topic 1194
Select this option if your report is about Ameol and not an addon.

.topic 1195
Select this option if your report is about an addon. Select the addon concerned from the drop-down list on the right.

.topic 1146
Choose this option to schedule the selected action to be executed every time the specified day interval has elapsed.

.topic 408
Choose this option to schedule the selected action to be executed every time the specified time interval has elapsed.

.topic 409
Choose this option if you wish to resign the entire named conference.

.topic 410
Choose this option if you wish to create a new collection of modem settings that can be used to connect to an on-line service.

.topic 411
Choose this option if you want to create a new group of Internet connection settings (a card).

.topic 412
Choose this option if you want to save the current message.

.topic 413
Choose this option if you want to save the current thread of messages.

.topic 414
Choose this option if you want to run the selected option once every day.

.topic 415
Choose this option if you'd like to delete all messages that match the criteria set.

.topic 416
With this option selected, Ameol will not retrieve Usenet articles from any source.

.topic 417
Choose this option if you'd like the selected command to be run every hour.

.topic 1088
This sets Ameol to print in landscape mode.

.topic 418
If this option is selected, mail messages addressed to other CIX Conferencing users will be sent via the CIX Conferencing system, and messages to people outside the CIX Conferencing system will be sent via your Internet Service Provider.

.topic 1277
This option allows you to mail a form when a message matches the rule criteria.

.topic 419
Choose this option if you'd like to keep a certain number of messages in the folder after a purge has been run. Note that purging will not break threads so more than the specified minimum number of messages may remain after a purge.

.topic 1324
These options will mark any messages which match the rule in a particular way, such as Priority or Ignored.

.topic 420
Choose this option if you'd like messages that match the rule's criteria to be marked as having been read.

.topic 421
Choose this option if you'd like messages that match the rule's criteria to be marked for priority attention.

.topic 1022
This option will grey out the message in the message window and mark the message and any subsequent comments that are posted to it as having been read.

.topic 422
Choose this option if you'd like to select a range of messages where you specify the first and last message number in the range.

.topic 1224
Select this option to use the default system browser to open web pages with Ameol. If Ameol could not find a default browser on your system this option will not be available and you will need to enter the path to an alternate web browser in the option below.

.topic 423
Choose this option if you'd like to run the selected command once every month.

.topic 1188
Select this option if you would like Ameol to move messages to an existing folder.

.topic 1189
Select this option if you would like Ameol to create a new folder for these messages.

.topic 424
Choose this option if you'd like any messages that match the rule's criteria to be moved to a specified folder.

.topic 425
Choose this option if you don't wish to run a script when this connection card is used.

.topic 426
Choose this option if you'd like to run the selected action once only at a specified time.

.topic 1087
This sets Ameol printing in portrait mode.

.topic 427
Choose this option if you'd like to use pulse dialling with this modem connection card.

.topic 428
Choose this option if you'd like to remove all threads that are older than a certain number of days when a purge is run.

.topic 429
Choose this option if you'd like to remove only those messages that have been marked for deletion when a purge is run on a folder.

.topic 1285
Choose this option if you'd like to remove only those messages that have been marked as ignored when a purge is run on a folder.

.topic 430
This option allows you to stop certain newsgroups from appearing in the Newsgroups List (Show All Newsgroups command). It will not stop you receiving messages from that newsgroup if you have subscribed to it. To reject all newsgroups and accept only those specified, select this option and then type the newsgroups you wish to accept into the list box that appears below.

.topic 431
Choose this option if you'd like to retrieve all the available headers from a newsgroup when you first subscribe to it.

.topic 432
Choose this option if you'd like to retrieve only the 50 most recent headers from a newsgroup when you first subscribe to it.

.topic 433
Choose this option if you'd like to retrieve the full article when a newsgroup header matches the criteria set for this rule.

.topic 1321
Select this option if you would like to print the selected text only.

.topic 434
Choose this option if you'd like messages with an attached file sent as one message rather than being split into several messages. You should note that not all services will accept messages larger than 1000 lines.

.topic 435
Choose this option if you'd like messages with an attached file sent as several messages.

.topic 436
Choose this option if you'd like to see the users accounts set up with Ameol sorted by Permissions.

.topic 437
Choose this option if you'd like to see the users accounts set up with Ameol sorted by User name.

.topic 1279
These options allow you to control which fields are checked when matching a message against a rule. "Matches All Fields" means the message must match every field with an entry before the rule is triggered. "Match Any" means the rule will be triggered if just one or more fields match the message. "Match None" means the rule will only be triggered when no fields match the message.

.topic 438
Choose this option if you'd like this modem connection card to use tone dialling.

.topic 439
Choose this option if you'd like to resign from this topic only but still receive messages from other topics in the conference.

.topic 440
Choose this option if you'd like to use the default font set for the printer.

.topic 441
Choose this option if you'd like to use the font when printing as specified in the Customise dialog. You can set the fonts thatAmeol uses by selecting Customise from the Settings menu.

.topic 442
Choose this option if you'd like to use the font when printing as specified for the Ameol display. You can set the fonts that Ameol uses by selecting Customise from the Settings menu.

.topic 443
Choose this option if you'd like the selected action to be scheduled to run on a weekly basis.

.topic 444
Choose this option if you'd like to run the selected action every time Ameol is started.

.topic 445
Choose this option if you'd like to run the specified script every time this connection card is used.

.topic 1007
Tab Pages

.topic 1288

(Route : Folder Menu, Properties Command)

This page displays the conference note.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

This page (available for CIX Conferencing folders only) displays the conference note for the selected conference.

.topic 6579

(Route : Settings Menu, Directories Command)

This tab page allows you to associate types of files that Ameol downloads with particular directories.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


For instance you might have a directory called 'Zips' into which you'd like Ameol to save all downloaded files with a .ZIP extension.

To set up an association, type the extension in the Ext: text box and the directory that you'd like these files saved to in the Directory: text box. You can also click the  button to browse for the directory location. Click the Add button to add this association to the list.

.topic 6492

(Route : Settings Menu, Preferences Command)

This tab page allows you to control how Ameol will handle files attached to mail and news messages.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


.topic 6628

(Route : Settings Menu, Preferences Command)

This tab page allows you to choose a filename for the world wide web browser configured to run with Ameol.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

When you come across a URL (a world wide web address like http://www.compulink.co.uk), click on the highlighted text.
Your specified web browser will be launched and will go to the indicated page.


.topic 6683

(Route : Settings Menu, Communications Command)

This tab page lists the available blink types and allows you to create, edit and delete types.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

A blink type is a list of services to access. For example the Internet Only blink type collects and posts usenet news and Internet mail messages, but does not collect or post CIX Conferencing messages. Blink types should not be confused with Connection Cards, which specify how the services should be accessed (direct-dial, telnet).

.topic 6640

(Route : Settings Menu, Communications Command, Edit Button)

This tab page allows you to set what actions will be run on the CIX Conferencing system when this blink item is used.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


Note that the title of this tab page may not match the example shown here ("All Conferencing"). The available options will, however, be the same.

.topic 6676

(Route : Settings Menu, Conferencing Command)

This tab page allows you to configure Ameol for use with the CIX Conferencing system.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


.topic 6444

(Route : File Menu, Terminal Command, New Button)

The Choose A Connection Card dialog box allows you to select an existing connection card or create a new connection card for use with your new terminal connection.



To select an existing connection card, choose one from the Connect With list. To create a new connection card click the Create a new connection card button.

Click the Finish button to save your new terminal connection. You will be able to add a button to the toolbar to run your connection by selecting the Toolbar command from the Settings menu.

.topic 6699

(Route : Settings Menu, Communications Command, Connections Tab, New Button)

This dialog box asks you whether you want to create a TAPI or Ameol Comms connection card. Click Next to continue.



.topic 6482

(Route : Settings Menu, Customise Command)

This tab page allows you to set which colours are used in the Ameol display.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

To change the colours for the terminal window displayed during blinking, press Alt Enter when the terminal window has the focus.

.topic 6427

(Route : File Menu, Terminal Command, Edit Button)

This tab page allows you to choose the colours that are displayed in the Terminal window.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

To change the colours for the terminal window displayed during blinking, press Alt Enter when the terminal window has the focus.

.topic 6682

(Route : Settings Menu, Communications Command)

The Connections tab page lists all communication cards you have defined within Ameol.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


The pre-defined cards depend on the OS in use and the type of installation you originally chose (Dial-Up Conferencing, Internet Conferencing Account or Net Access Conferencing).

The Dial-Up connection cards are direct dial modem configurations. If you set the Conferencing Only blink type to connect to CIX Conferencing via Dial-Up then Ameol will dial CIX Conferencing directly using the modem settings specified in the connection card.

The Net Access or Internet Conferencing connection cards are the only default Internet connection cards. They are configured to connect to CIX Conferencing via telnet, either using DUN or another winsock compatible TCP/IP stack. If the Conferencing Only blink type was set to connect via Internet Conferencing then Ameol would start your Internet dialler to connect to your Internet provider, then connect to CIX Conferencing via your Internet Conferencing account.

In Ameol 32-bit under Windows95 and WindowsNT there is a third connection card. The Dial-Up Conferencing (Win95/NT) connection card is a TAPI modem configuration. This takes all settings from the system TAPI configuration (which can be viewed and edited from Control Panel, Modems).

.topic 6587

(Route : Settings Menu, Communications Command, Connections Tab, New Button)

This dialog box allows you to choose whether to create a modem connection card or an Internet connection card, both for connecting to a service such as the CIX Conferencing system. The Modem Connection Card option will create a connection card which will connect via a modem, the Internet Connection Card option will create a connection card which will connect via the Internet.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


.topic 6695

(Route : Settings Menu, Toolbar Command, Options tab)

The Options tab allows you to control the appearance and functionality of the toolbar.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

The Show Tooltips option will enable you to see a small label giving a description of the button if you leave the mouse pointer over a button.

The Large Buttons option will make all the buttons in the toolbar a larger size.

The 3D Toolbar Style option will give the buttons a 3D appearance.

The Display Labels Below Buttons option will display explanatory labels below the toolbar buttons.

The Separators as lines option will draw toolbar separators as lines.

The New toolbar style option will make Ameol use the new toolbar bitmap style.

.topic 6500

(Route : Settings Menu, Toolbar Command, Customise tab)

The Customise tab allows you to change the buttons that appear on the toolbar.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


The Categories list shows the groups of buttons that you can choose from. The Buttons list shows the buttons that are in a particular category.

When you have found the button that you wish to add, click on the button in the Buttons list and keep the left mouse button held down. Now drag the button to where you'd like it to appear in the toolbar and release the mouse button. You can remove buttons from the toolbar in a similar fashion by dragging them from the toolbar into the buttons list.

To add a toolbar separator use the left mouse button to pick up the button to the right of where you want the gap to be, then drag it slightly to the right (approximately one third of the width of the button). The Customise Toolbar dialog must be open for this to work.

When you have finished adding and/or removing buttons click the OK button. If you want to return the toolbar to its default settings click the Reset button.

If you dislike the blink button bitmaps you can change them - right click on the blink button you wish to change and from the popup menu select Bitmap. A grid of alternate bitmaps will open, select your desired bitmap and click OK to change it. Note that you can only change the blink bitmaps, not normal button bitmaps. Also the blink button must be on the toolbar before it can be changed.

.topic 6646

(Route : Settings Menu, Mail Command)

This tab page allows you to configure how Ameol sends and receives e-mail messages.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


.topic 6580

(Route : Settings Menu, Directories Command)

This tab page allows you to configure in which directories Ameol will look for data and files



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


.topic 458

(Route : Conf Menu, File List Command)

The Directory tab page shows the complete list of the files that are held in the conference topic on the CIX Conferencing system.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

This tab is only available if you are the moderator of the selected conference.

Not all of these files will necessarily be displayed in the file list and you will not be able to directly download one of these files if it does not appear in the file list.

.topic 6574

(Route : Settings Menu, Communications Command)

This tab page allows you to assign Remote Access Services (Dial-Up Networking) support to Ameol.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

This page allows you to set the default DUN settings for any new blink settings you create.

.topic 6645

(Route : Settings Menu, Communications Command, Edit Button)

This tab page allows you to assign Remote Access Services (Dial-Up Networking) support to the current blink item.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

.topic 6665

(Route : Settings Menu, Preferences Command)

This tab page allows you to set preferences for the message editor in Ameol.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


.topic 6428

(Route : File Menu, Terminal Command, Edit Button)

The Emulations tab page allows you to choose which terminal emulation to use in the Terminal window.






To change the emulation, highlight the emulation that you would like to use in the Available Emulations list. A short description of the currently highlighted emulation is shown under the list.


.topic 6220

(Route : Conf Menu, File List Command)

This tab page shows a list of the files that are available for download from this CIX conference topic.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

There are two or three tab pages on this dialog. The File List tab page shows the files that are available for download from the current conference topic. The Directory tab page shows all the files that are in the file directory for the conference topic. Not all of these files will be shown in the file list and you will only see this tab if you are the moderator of the selected conference. The Previous Downloads tab page shows the list of files that you have downloaded from this conference topic in the past.

Note that these lists are only as up-to-date as the last time they were retrieved from the CIX Conferencing system. To refresh the lists, click the Update button.

To download a file from the file list, go to the File List tab page and highlight the file you wish to retrieve, then click the Download button. You will see the File Download dialog box confirming the details of the file you wish to download. If these are correct click the OK button to retrieve the file the next time Ameol connects to the CIX Conferencing system.

If you want to search the file list, click the Find button.


.topic 6644

(Route : File Menu, Page Setup Command)

This tab page allows you to determine the font that will be used when printing from Ameol.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


.topic 6426

(Route : File Menu, Terminal Command, Edit Button)

The Font tab page allows you to select which font will be used in the Terminal window.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


Choose the font type from the Font list, the font style from the Style list and the font size from the Size list.

A sample of the font that you have chosen will be displayed in the Sample view underneath the list boxes.



.topic 6619

(Route : Settings Menu, Customise Command)

This tab page allows you to set the fonts that Ameol will use in its display.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

You apply different fonts to many of Ameol's display windows.

.topic 6459

(Route : Settings Menu, Preferences Command)

This tab page allows you to set general preferences for using Ameol.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


.topic 6425

(Route : File Menu, Terminal Command, Edit Button)

The General tab page allows you to set a number of options that will apply to the current terminal connection.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


The title of the terminal connection is shown in the Title text box and the card with which it connects in the Connect With list box. You can edit the connection card that is selected by clicking the button to the right of the Connect With list.


.topic 6454

(Route : Settings Menu, Usenet Command)

This tab page allows you to set general options for using Usenet newsgroups.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


.topic 6491

(Route : File Menu, Page Setup Command)

These tab pages allow you to set the headers or footers that will be used when printing from Ameol.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.



.topic 6659

(Route : Settings Menu, Usenet Command)

The Headers tab page allows you to set the lines that Ameol will add to the header of  Usenet newsgroup articles that you send.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


By default, Ameol will add the following lines to the header of  newsgroup articles that you send.

Organisation: CIX
X-News-Software: Ameol

To add another line to the header, enter the type of the line in the Type text box and the setting for the type in the Setting text box. Click the Add button to add it to the list.

To remove the currently highlighted header line, click the Remove button.

.topic 6680

(Route : Settings Menu, Mail Command)

The Headers tab page allows you to set the lines that Ameol will add to the header of  mail messages that you send.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


By default, Ameol will add the following lines to the header of  newsgroup articles that you send.

Organisation: CIX
X-URL: http://www.ameol.com

To add another line to the header, enter the type of the line in the Type text box and the setting for the type in the Setting text box. Click the Add button to add it to the list.

To remove the currently highlighted header line, click the Remove button.

.topic 6636

(Route : Settings Menu, Mail Command)

This tab page allows you to specify which servers will be used to collect e-mail messages.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

.topic 6641

(Route : Settings Menu, Communications Menu Command, Edit Button (with a a blink type highlighted))

This tab page allows you to determine what Internet-specific commands will be run when this blink item is used.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

.topic 6589

(Route : Settings Menu, Communications Command, New Button)

The Internet Connection Card dialog box allows you to specify which Internet address you'd like to connect to with this connection card.



Enter the address you'd like to connect to in the Address text box in the style cix.compulink.co.uk or in the style 194.153.0.50.


.topic 6463

(Route : Settings Menu, Customise Command)

This tab page allows you to set the keyboard shortcuts that Ameol uses.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

.topic 7010

(Route : Folder Menu, Properties Command)

This page allows you to view and set the mail sender details for messages sent from this mailbox.




If you have multiple email addresses and want to send mail with the sender details (From: field etc) set to an alternate address you can do so using this page.

Enter the email address from which the mail will appear to have been sent, the Full Name from which it will be sent, and the Reply-To address, then click OK.

Any email sent while that mailbox is open will have the details you entered. Mail sent from other mailboxes, CIX topic, or newsgroups will be unaffected.

Please note that the default values for your mailboxes can be set from the Internet page of the Mail dialog from the Settings menu.



.topic 6586

(Route : Settings Menu, Mail Command)

This tab page allows you to set general mail settings.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

.topic 6329

(Route : File Menu, Page Setup Command)

This tab page allows you to set the margins used when printing from Ameol.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

The printer will not print anything beyond the margins that you set.


.topic 6588

(Route : Settings Menu, Communications Command, New Button)

The Modem Connection Card dialog box allows you to specify what type of modem you have and how it is connected to your computer.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


Select your modem from the Modem list, choose which of your ports it's connected to from  the Port list and the speed of your modem from the Speed list.

If your not sure about your modem or the settings required for it, click the AutoDetect button. This will run tests to determine what modem you have and set Ameol to an appropriate modem configuration.

.topic 477

(Route : Conf Menu, Participants Command)

This tab page displays the moderators of the highlighted conference.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


The lists of moderators is only as up-to-date as the last time it was retrieved from the CIX Conferencing system. To refresh the list, select the conferences you wish to update in the Conferences list and then click the Update button. The new lists will be downloaded the next time Ameol connects to the CIX Conferencing system.

There are two tab pages on the right of the dialog box, one giving a list of the Participants and the other the Moderators. The list of participants or moderators shows the members of the currently highlighted conference in the Conferences list.

If a participant of a conference is also a moderator then their name will be shown in bold in the Participants list.

You can also add and remove moderators of a conference (only if you are a moderator) by clicking the Add and Remove buttons.

To get the resume of the currently highlighted CIX Conferencing user click the Resume button.

To search your local participant lists for a username select the Find button.

.topic 6583

(Route : Folder Menu, Properties Command)

The Moderators tab page will show you the CIX Conferencing nicknames of the moderators of the current CIX conference.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


.topic 6591

(Route : Settings Menu, Communications Command, New Button)

The Name Your Connection Card dialog box allows you to provide a name for the connection card that you've just created.



Enter the name in the Name text box and click the Finish button to save your new connection card.

.topic 6677

(Route : Settings Menu, Usenet Command)

This tab page allows you to configure your news servers.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

If you do not have Internet service installed this tab page will be labelled "cixnews" and will be similar to the CIXNews Properties dialog box.

.topic 6306

(Route : CIX Menu, Participants Command)

This tab page displays the participants of the highlighted conference.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


The Participants dialog box allows you to see both the participants and moderators for the CIX conferences of which you are a member.

The lists of participants are only as up-to-date as the last time they were retrieved from the CIX Conferencing system. To refresh the lists, select the conferences you wish to update in the Conferences list and then click the Update button. The new lists will be downloaded the next time Ameol connects to the CIX Conferencing system.

There are two tab pages on the right of the dialog box, one giving a list of the Participants and the other the Moderators. The list of participants or moderators shows the members of the currently highlighted conference in the Conferences list.

If a participant of a conference is also a moderator then their name will be shown in bold in the Participants list.

You can also add and remove participants of a conference (only if you are a moderator) by clicking the Add and Remove buttons.

To get the resume of the currently highlighted CIX Conferencing user click the Resume button.

To search your local participant lists for a username select the Find button.

.topic 1023

(Route : Conf Menu, File List Command)

This tab page shows a list of any files that you have downloaded from the current CIX Conference File List in the past.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


This list is updated every time you download a new file from the current file list.

.topic 6524

(Route :  Settings Menu, Install Addons Command, Info Button)

The Properties tab page shows details about the currently highlighted Ameol addon program.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


The filename, version, version of Ameol required and author of the addon program are shown.

.topic 6565

(Route : Settings Menu, Preferences Command)

The Purge tab page allows you to set the default purge options for the folders in your message database.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

.topic 6465

(Route : Folder Menu, Properties Command)

This tab page allows you to determine how a running purge will affect the messages in this folder.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

.topic 6494

(Route : Settings Menu, Preferences Command)

This tab page allows you to set preferences for reading messages in Ameol.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

.topic 6559

(Route : Folder Menu, Properties Command)

This tab page shows any rules that are currently applied to this folder and also allows you to assign new rules and edit existing ones.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

You can change the order in which rules are applied by using the Move Up and Move Down buttons.

.topic 6590

(Route : Settings Menu, Communications Command, New Button)

The Run A Script dialog box allows you to specify a script to be run once a connection has been established using the connection card.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


To run a script, choose the Yes, run the script option and use the browse button to choose the script that you wish to run.

.topic 6651

(Route : Folder Menu, Properties Command)

This tab page will only appear if you're looking at the properties for a newsgroup folder. You can specify which news server should be used for retrieving messages for this newsgroup using this tab page.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

From this tab page you can choose which news server to use to collect and post news articles for the selected group.

.topic 6584

(Route : Folder Menu, Properties Command)

This tab page allows you to edit the general settings for this folder.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

Note that the available options will depend on the item for which the properties are being displayed. For example, you will not be able to set the Return Reciept setting when viewing the properties of a CIX Conferencing topic (as CIX Conferencing topics do not use Return Receipts).


.topic 6443

(Route : File Menu, Terminal Command, New Button)

The Select a Title For the Connection dialog box allows you to set up a new connection to a service using the Terminal Window.



Enter the name that you'd like to give to the new terminal connection in the Name of connection text box. Click the Next button to proceed.

.topic 6474



This is the first step in setting up Ameol. Click the Next button to proceed.

If at any stage in the set up you need to go back and alter the choices that you have made or the settings that you have entered, you can click the Back button

.topic 6547



This part of the set up asks you for your CIX Conferencing nickname (username) and password. These were supplied to you with your account details.

Click Next to continue.

.topic 6548



This stage of the set up allows you to decide how you would like to connect to the CIX Conferencing system.

Choose Access CIX Conferencing via dial up if you'd like to use your modem to connect directly to CIX Conferencing.

Choose Access CIX Conferencing via the Internet if you'd like to connect to CIX Conferencing via your Internet connection.

If you choose to connect using either option then Ameol will initially connect via the Internet. You can change this later if you prefer.

When you have made your choice, click Next to continue.

.topic 6549



This stage in the set up allows you to configure your modem to access the CIX Conferencing system directly via a modem connection.

Select your modem from the Modem list, choose which of your ports it's connected to from  the Port list and the speed of your modem from the Speed list.

If your not sure about your modem or the settings required for it, click the AutoDetect button. This will run tests to determine what modem you have and set Ameol to an appropriate modem configuration.

Note: Ameol 32-bit under WindowsNT and Windows95 will attempt to use your system modem settings (TAPI settings) so you may not see the Port, Speed and AutoDetect items.


Click Next to continue.

.topic 6666



This stage in the set up allows you to configure your modem to access the CIX Conferencing system directly via a modem connection.

Select your modem from the Modem list. This is a list of TAPI compliant modems installed on your system. If your modem is not listed here select Install New Modem.


Click Next to continue.

.topic 6662



This section of the setup routine allows you to enter the CIX Conferencing telephone number.

.topic 6475



Choose the CIX account type you have.

ICA means you access CIX Conferencing through CIX Internet using the local telephone numbers.

Dial Up means you access CIX Conferencing by dialling direct to CIX, not connecting through the Internet.

Net Access means you access CIX Conferencing through the Internet using another Internet Service Provider.

Internet Only means you do not access CIX Conferencing at all, but wish to use Ameol2 to read mail and news.

If you have an old-style CIX Internet Account or your own domain name you should choose Net Access then choose the CIX Internet option when asked for your service provider.


Click Next to continue when you have made your choice.

.topic 6477



If you chose to install Ameol to work with an Internet Service Provider other than CIX Internet, choose the name of your provider here.

If your provider does not appear in the list choose Unlisted Service Provider. You will be asked for further details later in the set up procedure.

Click Next to continue.

.topic 6478



If you chose an unlisted Internet service provider, you will need to provide details of their server addresses and domain name here.

The SMTP Server text box requires the Internet address of your service provider's SMTP server machine.

The News Server text box requires the Internet address of your service provider's News server machine.

The POP3 Server text box requires the Internet address of your service provider's POP3 Mail server machine.

The Domain text box requires the domain name of your service provider.

If you are unsure about any of these details, then contact your service provider for details. When you have entered the relevant information in all the text boxes, click the Next button to continue.

.topic 6652



At this stage in the set up you need to provide your details for logging on to the service provider that you have chosen. These details will have been given to you when you joined your service provider.

The Full name text box requires your full name, such as Joe Bloggs.

Click the Next button to continue.

.topic 6653



At this stage in the set up you need to provide your details for logging on to the service provider that you have chosen. These details will have been given to you when you joined your Internet service provider.

The Login name text box requires your user name for this POP3 mail server.

The Password text box requires the password that you need to enter to gain access to the service. Check with your service provider if you're not sure about these details.

Click the Next button to continue.

.topic 7009



At this stage in the set up you need to provide your details for logging on to the service provider that you have chosen. These details will have been given to you when you joined your service provider.

The Full name text box requires your full name, such as Joe Bloggs.

The Email Address section requires you to enter your full email address. Enter the section before the @ symbol in the first box, and the section after the @ symbol in the second box. Do not include the @ symbol. Ask your ISP if you are not sure about your email address.


.topic 6582



This part of the set up allows you to use your telephone line or a LAN to connect.

If you choose to use your phone line then this function will automatically be used when you use Ameol to connect to an Internet service provider.

Click Next to continue.

.topic 6514



This is the end of the set up process. Click Finish to start using Ameol.

.topic 6581



This part of the set up procedure asks you to specify the Dial-Up Networking entry that you would like to use with Ameol. You also have to option to create a new entry. For more information about Dial-Up Networking consult the Windows95 help file or documentation.

Select the Dial-Up Networking entry that you like to use from the Entry list. To create a new entry click the Create new entry button.

Click Next to continue.

.topic 6575



This part of the set up procedure asks you to specify the Remote Access Services entry that you would like to use with Ameol. For more information about Remote Access Services consult the WindowsNT help file or documentation.

Select the Remote Access Services entry that you like to use from the Entry list.

Click Next to continue.

.topic 6685



This part of the setup routine allows you to choose whether Ameol will be used when another programs wants to send Internet mail. This is mainly useful when used in conjunction with a web browser.


.topic 6697



This section of Setup allows you to enter your Internet Conferencing Account name and password, and your Internet password. You will have received your Internet password from CIX either in a letter when you signed up or by letter a few days after signing up online.

.topic 6698



This page explains the passwords you will be entering on the next screen.

.topic 6556

(Route : Folder Menu, Properties Command)

This tab page allows you to set the default signature that will be used in your messages sent to the conference or newsgroup contained in this folder.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

.topic 6455

(Route : Settings Menu, Preferences Command)

This tab page allows you to set general preferences for the Ameol spell checker.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


.topic 6466

(Route : Folder Menu, Properties Command)

This tab page displays information about the messages stored in this folder.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.

.topic 6464

(Route : Folder Menu, Properties Command)

The Statistics tab page shows details about the current Ameol message database.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


The top section of the page shows the date and time that the database was created, the user account that created it and the access permission status.

The lower section gives the total number of messages, the number of bookmarks placed in the message database, the total number of unread messages and the number of messages that are marked as priority.

Click the Check Database button to perform a check on the entire database.

.topic 6467

(Route : Folder Menu, Properties Command)

The Statistics tab page shows details about the current message database CIX conference topic, mailbox or newsgroup.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


The top section of the page shows the date and time that the topic was created, the type of topic (CIX conference, newsgroup or mailbox) the name of the file in which the index is stored, the name of the file where the messages are stored and the amount of disk space used.

The lower section gives the total number of messages, the number of bookmarks placed in the message database, the total number of unread messages and the number of messages that are marked as priority.



.topic 6486

(Route : Settings Menu, Preferences Command)

This tab page allows you to set preferences regarding the viewing of messages in Ameol.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.
Sample Views
[[[ENDKEEPN]]]

.topic 1008


.topic 520
This sample view will show you what the chosen font looks like.

.topic 521
This sample view will show you a preview of the mugshot file that you have associated with this CIX Conferencing user.


.topic 523
This sample view will show you a preview of the mugshot file that you have associated with this Address Book entry.

.topic 524
This sample view will show you a block of the currently selected colour.

.topic 525
This sample view will show you what your signature will look like at the bottom of a message.

.topic 836
This preview display will show what your printed page will look like.

.topic 837
This preview display will show you how your header or footer will look on the printed page.

.topic 1009


.topic 526
This button will bring up the standard Open File dialog so that you can select the addon file that you wish to add. This dialog will default to the 'Addons' directory of your Ameol installation, but you can select the file from any location. The only file type thatAmeol will recognise as an addon will have the extension ADN. When you have located the addon file that you wish to add to Ameol, click the Open button to install it.

.topic 1135
Click this button to add the highlighted address or group on the left to the list of To addresses.

.topic 1136
Click this button to add the highlighted address or group to the list of CC addresses.

.topic 1239
Click this button to Add addresses to this address book group.

.topic 527
This button will add the entered filename extension and directory location to the list of associations.

.topic 528
This button will open the standard File Open Dialog so that you can add a custom dictionary file.

This dialog will accept files with the extension .DIC. By default the path will be the 'Dict' directory in your Ameol installation. When you have located the dictionary file you wish to add, click the Open button to add the dictionary to the custom dictionaries list.

.topic 529
Click this button to add a new mugshot to the list.

.topic 1089
This button will open the Add Moderators dialog box.

Note that you will only be able to add or remove moderators if you are currently a moderator of the conference that you are trying to change.

.topic 530
When you have entered a CIX Conferencing nickname in the Name: field, click the Add button to include that CIX Conferencing member to the list of participants or moderators that you wish to add to the conference. When you have clicked the Add button the Name field will be cleared so that you can enter another name.

.topic 531
This button will open the Add Participants dialog box.

Note that you will only be able to add or remove participants or moderators if you are currently a moderator of the conference that you are trying to change.

.topic 532
Clicking this button will bring up the Edit Scheduled Item dialog box so that you can add a new item to the schedule list.

.topic 533
Clicking this button will place the currently highlighted script in the Scripts list to the Out Basket so that it can be run the next timeAmeol blinks.

.topic 1061
This button takes you to the Server Properties dialog so you can add a server.

.topic 534
Clicking this button will add the currently highlighted word to the custom dictionary. The custom dictionary files are held in the 'Dict' directory of your Ameol installation. You can edit the custom dictionary by opening the CUSTOM.DIC file using Notepad or any other text editor.

.topic 535
This button allows you to Add a custom header line to any Internet message that you post.

.topic 536
Clicking this button will bring up the Add User dialog box. Using this dialog box you can create a new user account withinAmeol.

.topic 1128
Click this button when you have finished selecting the options for the new user. This will create the new user.

.topic 537
Clicking this button will add the current contents of the Number and To fields to the Fax Address Book so that you can recall them for future use. Note that this button will not be enabled unless there are entries in both the Number and To fields.

.topic 1323
This button will apply the rules in the selected item to the existing messages. Please note that this will take a considerable time to complete if the selected item is a folder or category.

.topic 538
Click this button to assign a new keystroke or any adjustments that you have made to the existing keystrokes.

.topic 539
Click this button to attach a file to your message.

.topic 540
Click this button if you want Ameol to attempt to automatically detect which modem you are using. Note that AutoDetection is not always successful.

.topic 1304
Click this button to choose BCC recipients of a copy of this message from the Address Book.

.topic 541
Click this button if you want to browse for the directory or file name.

.topic 542
Click this button to choose recipients of a copy of this message from the Address Book.

.topic 543
Click this button to change the misspelt word to the word entered in the Change To text box.

.topic 1169
Click this button to change the current mugshot association.

.topic 1054
This button allows you to change the directory to import message from, to change the user who's database will be imported and theAmeol user name that the messages will be imported to.

.topic 1053
Click this button to turn on and off the copying of messages to yourself.

.topic 544
Click this button to change all occurrences of the misspelt word to the word entered in the Change To text box.

.topic 545
Click this button to start the Check & Repair function. This will go through the messages in this section of your message database, check them for consistency and repair any errors found.

.topic 1295
Click this button to choose which headers are displayed when short headers are enabled.

.topic 546
This button will close the Out Basket. To open it again select Out Basket from the View menu.

.topic 1029
This button will open the Terminal Window and connect you to the currently highlighted terminal connection.

.topic 548
Click this button to choose a colour that is not show in the palette on the Colours tab page.

.topic 549
   Click this button to add a date field (this will show the current date whenever you print a page.)

.topic 1246
Click this button to make the highlighted news server the default server. The default server is offered first when viewing Usenet lists or subscribing to newsgroups.

.topic 1057
This button sets the default dictionary to which new words will be added. To make a dictionary the default, highlight it and click this button. The default dictionary is shown in bold.

.topic 550
Click this button to delete the currently highlighted resume from the resumes list.

.topic 551
This button will delete the currently highlighted item from the Out Basket.

.topic 552
Click this button to remove the currently highlighted signature.

.topic 553
Click this button to delete the currently highlighted mugshot file.

.topic 554
Click this button to remove the currently highlighted search from the list.

.topic 1208
Click this button to delete the currently selected terminal connection

.topic 1094
This button is disabled as the function is not appropriate on this screen.

.topic 1183
Click this button to disable the highlighted scheduled item.

.topic 555
Click this button to download the currently highlighted file.

.topic 556
This button allows you to choose a location on your computer for any files that you download using the terminal window.

.topic 557
Click this button to edit the current settings.

.topic 597
This button opens the Blink Actions tab pages which allow you to edit the properties for the currently selected blink item.

.topic 558
Click this button to edit the settings for the currently selected connection card

.topic 559
This button will allow you to edit the currently highlighted item in the Out Basket.

.topic 560
Click this button to open the Edit Rule dialog box, where you can edit the currently highlighted rule.

.topic 561
Clicking this button will bring up the Edit Scheduled Item dialog box so that you can edit the settings for the currently highlighted scheduler item.

.topic 562
Click this button to edit the current script.

.topic 1245
This button open the Signature dialog box which allows you to create or edit signatures.

.topic 1030
Click this button to see the properties for the currently selected terminal connection. You can also use this button to edit the terminal connection's properties.

.topic 563
Click this button to edit the connection card used to connect.

.topic 1063
This button will take you to the Server Properties dialog to edit an existing server.

.topic 564
Click this button to add or remove mugshots from the mugshots list.

.topic 1083
This button opens the Fonts tab page with the Printer font highlighted. You can then change the font.

.topic 1210
Click this button to edit the permissions for the selected user.

.topic 565
Click this button to remove the currently highlighted file from your CIX Conferencing mail directory.

.topic 1077
Click this button to exit Ameol. You can then locate your index file or investigate the reason it is missing.

.topic 566
Click this button to export the currently highlighted file from your CIX Conferencing mail directory to another topic on the CIX Conferencing system.

.topic 1145
Click this button to open the Mail Directory dialog. You can then select the filename from any of the files listed there.

.topic 567
Click this button to search for text in the list.

.topic 1258
This button opens the Find Participant dialog box which will search your local participant lists for a username and display the conferences of which they are a member.

.topic 1150
Click this button to start searching.

.topic 1039
Click this button to choose which filters you wish to apply to the newsgroup list.

.topic 568
Click this button to find the next occurrence of text entered in the Find what text box.

.topic 569
Click this button to finish spell checking the current message.

.topic 570
Click this button retrieve a resume for a named CIX Conferencing user.

.topic 1078
You clicked this button to get help on this function.

.topic 571
Click this button to mark the current e-mail message as high priority. Note that not all e-mail reading packages will recognise the priority field in an e-mail message.

.topic 572
This button will hold the currently highlighted item in the Out Basket so that it will not be executed when Ameol blinks. When an item is held, the caption on this button will change from Hold to Release. Click the Release button to execute the currently highlighted item on the next blink.

.topic 573
Click this button to ignore the current word that the Spell Checker suspects is misspelt.

.topic 574
Click this button to ignore all occurrences of the current word.

.topic 1163
Click Import to finalise your import settings.

.topic 596
Click this button to see information about the currently highlighted Ameol addon program.

.topic 575
Click this button to join the currently highlighted CIX conference.

.topic 576
This button will keep the currently highlighted item in the Out Basket so that it will not be removed after the next blink. An item that is kept can be executed every time Ameol blinks. When the currently highlighted item has been kept the caption on the Keep button will change to Unkeep. Click this button to return the currently highlighted item to normal status.

.topic 577
Click this button to see the full list of resumes currently held in Ameol.

.topic 1075
Click this button to locate your admin.adb file, for example if you have moved your database.

.topic 1252
Select this button to open the system Location dialog. In this dialog you can set up a Mercury PIN or specify which number is required for an outside line.

.topic 578
Click this button to mark the current e-mail message as low priority. Note that not all e-mail reading packages will recognise the priority field in an e-mail message.

.topic 1097
Click this button to compose a new mail message to the highlighted group or person.

.topic 579
Click this button to edit the settings for the currently selected modem.

.topic 580
Click this button to add a new rule that will apply to the current folder.

.topic 581
This button opens the New Blink Entry dialog box which allows you to add a new blink item.

.topic 1076
Click this button to create a new database index file. You will need to repair your database after selecting this option.

.topic 582
Click this button to add a new connection card.

.topic 1207
Click this button to add a new terminal connection.

.topic 583
Click this button to add a new custom dictionary.

.topic 584
Click this button to open the Edit Rule dialog box, where you can add a new rule.

.topic 1184
Click this button to create a new script.

.topic 585
Click this button to add a new signature.

.topic 586
Click this button to create a new address book.

.topic 587
Click this button to add a new entry to the address book.

.topic 588
Click this button to add a new group to the current address book. You can store address book entries in separate groups and have the same entry appear in different groups.

.topic 1173
Click this button to download any new groups created since the list was last downloaded.

.topic 1280
This button allows you to create a new local topic or mailbox to store messages which match this rule.

.topic 1205
Click this button to create a new set of news server settings.

.topic 589
Click this button to choose a fax number from the Fax Address Book.

.topic 591
This button will open a file on your computer and save all the text that passes through the Terminal window into it. This is a good way to keep a record of your terminal sessions.

.topic 592
Click this button to view the Event Log Options dialog. This dialog allows you to choose the event types that are recorded in the Event Log.

.topic 593
Click this button to open the Spelling tab page of the Preferences dialog. This allows you to set options for the Spell Checker.

.topic 594
   Click this button to insert the page number.

.topic 1176
Click here to pass either the selected text or the author of the current message to the external program.

.topic 595
This button will suspend the logging of text to the Terminal Log file. When paused this button's caption will change to Resume. Click the button in this state to resume logging of text from the terminal window.

.topic 598
Click this button to run a purge on the current folder.

.topic 599
Click this button to remove the currently highlighted Ameol addon from the list of addons that Ameol installs when it is started. This button will not remove the addon program files from your hard disk.

.topic 1137
Click this button to remove the highlighted address or group from the list of To addresses.

.topic 1138
Click this button to remove the highlighted address or group from the list of CC addresses.

.topic 600
Click this button to remove the currently highlighted address book entry.

.topic 601
Click this button to remove the currently highlighted file type/directory association.

.topic 602
Click this button to remove the currently highlighted blink item.

.topic 603
Click this button to remove the currently highlighted connection card.

.topic 604
Click this button to remove the currently highlighted custom dictionary.

.topic 605
Click this button to remove the currently highlighted keyboard shortcut.

.topic 606
Click this button to remove the currently highlighted CIX Conferencing user/mugshot association. This will not remove the mugshot file from your hard disk.

.topic 1090
Click this button to remove the currently highlighted CIX Conferencing user from the moderators list. The user will be removed from the moderator list the next time that Ameol logs on to the CIX Conferencing system. (Note you will only be able to remove moderators if you are a moderator of the conference.)

.topic 607
Click this button to remove the currently highlighted CIX Conferencing user from the participants list. The user will be removed from the CIX Conferencing conference the next time that Ameol logs on to the CIX Conferencing system. (Note you will only be able to remove participants if you are a moderator of the conference.)

.topic 1080
This button will remove the highlighted user name in the list of users from the left list box. The user will now not be added as a participant or moderator.

.topic 608
Click this button to remove the currently highlighted rule.

.topic 609
Click this button to remove the currently highlighted scheduler item.

.topic 610
Click this button to remove the currently highlighted script from the list of CIX Conferencing scripts. This will not remove the script file from your hard disk.

.topic 611
This button will remove the currently highlighted custom header from the list.

.topic 1062
This button will remove the selected server. You will be asked to confirm the deletion.

.topic 1209
This button will remove the selected user.

.topic 612
Click this button to rename the currently highlighted file in your CIX Conferencing mail directory.

.topic 613
Click this button to replace the current instance of the text entered in the in the Find what: field with the text entered in the Replace with: field.

.topic 614
Click this button to replace all instances of the text entered in the in the Find what: field with the text entered in the Replace with: field.

.topic 615
Click this button to reset the colour of the currently highlighted item to its default colour.

.topic 616
Click this button to reset the font for the currently selected item to its default.

.topic 617
Click this button to reset the toolbar to its default configuration.

.topic 618
Click this button to reset all colours for all items to their default colours.

.topic 619
Click this button to reset all fonts for all items to their default fonts.

.topic 620
Click this button to reset all keyboard shortcuts to their default keys.

.topic 1327
Click this button to reset the Ameol windows to their default size and style.

.topic 1152
Click this button to resign from the highlighted conference.

.topic 621
Click this button to view or download the resume for the currently highlighted CIX Conferencing user.

.topic 1180
Click this button to view the next resume in your list.

.topic 1181
Click this button to view the previous listed resume.

.topic 1302
Click this button if you would like the addressee's mail software to send back an acknowledgment that the mail has been read. Not all mail software supports this feature.

.topic 1320
Clicking this button will make the selected scheduler item run now.

.topic 1142
Click on Save to save your message to the outbasket. It will be sent when you next connect.

.topic 622
Click this button to save and name the current search criteria.

.topic 623
Click this button to send the currently highlighted file in your CIX Conferencing mail directory to another CIX Conferencing user.

.topic 1186
Click this button to open the Address Book picker so you can add an address from the address book.

.topic 624
Click this button to set the purge setting for this folder to the default. The default is set from the Preferences Purge tab..

.topic 1251
Selecting this button will open your system Modem Properties dialigue, where you can set modem options such as connect speed, COM port etc.

.topic 625
Click this button to set the options for your printer.

.topic 626
Click this button to start.

.topic 627
Click this button to subscribe to the currently highlighted Usenet newsgroup.

.topic 628
Afetr entering an alternate spelling in the Change To text box, click this button to see if the spell checker can now suggest the correct word.

.topic 629
Click this button if you'd like to add the text of the original e-mail message to the end of your reply.

.topic 630
   Click this button if you'd like to add the current time to your page. Note that this time will always be current, not the time that you click this button.

.topic 631
Click this button to choose the recipient of the message from the entries in the Address Book.

.topic 632
Click this button to download the most recent copy of this list.

.topic 1172
Click this button to download the complete list of newsgroups available from this server.

.topic 1179
This button will put a resume update item in your out basket. The selected resume will be updated when you next connect to CIX Conferencing.

.topic 633
This button allows you to locate a file on your computer that you wish to upload via the terminal window.

.topic 1020
The Use Software Flow Control button will change the way that Ameol communicates with your modem. Most modems use a hardware connection to tell the computer to send or stop sending data. However, if your modem (or modem cable) doesn't support this then the modem can send the same information via the main data line to tell the computer when to send data. This button will switch Ameol into this software control mode.

.topic 634
Click this button to view the text of the currently highlighted resume.

.topic 1010


.topic 635
This menu command will launch the About Ameol Dialog box, giving details of the Ameol version number and the registration details.

.topic 636
Selecting this menu item (or pressing Ctrl + A) will bring up the 'Add New Entry' dialog for the address book. The Address field will be filled in with the address of the user whose message is currently highlighted. This can be an e-mail, CIX conference or Newsgroup message that is currently showing in the Message Window. You can add additional details to the entry at this stage or just click the OK button to add the address to the Address Book.

.topic 638
Selecting this menu command will launch the Ameol address book.

.topic 639
This menu command will automatically arrange any windows that you currently have minimised (displayed as icons).

.topic 692
This menu command will place a 'bookmark' at the current message. You can then use the next and previous bookmark buttons to find this message again easily. When a message is bookmarked this menu command changes to Remove Bookmark.

.topic 642
This menu command will 'cascade' all of the currently open windows.

.topic 643
This menu command will open the Check Dialog so you can start the Ameol database checking procedure. You can use this command to go through your message database, check for any errors and fix them.

.topic 644
This menu command will open the Spell Checker and begin checking the current message.

.topic 645
The CIX Help command will take you to the CIX help file. This file contains instructions for the CIX Conferencing system and details the answers to frequently asked questions

.topic 1046
This menu command opens the Conferencing dialog box which allows you to choose various options related to your CIX Conferencing account. For example you can choose whether to enable scratchpad compression from this screen.

.topic 646
This menu command will clear the currently highlighted text from the message that your are writing.

.topic 647
This menu command will place an item in your Out Basket that will clear your e-mail messages that are held on the CIX Conferencing system. You can set the period after which mail is cleared in the Conferencing dialog box. This can be opened by selecting Conferencing from the Settings menu.

.topic 648
This menu command will place an item in your Out Basket that will clear your e-mail messages that are held on your Internet mail server. You can set the period after which mail is cleared in the Internet tab page of the Mail dialog. This can be opened by selecting Mail from the Settings menu.

.topic 649
This menu command will close all of the currently opened windows.

.topic 650
This menu command will open the Comment Editor and allow you to post a message in response to the currently highlighted message.

.topic 1017
This menu command opens the Communications tab pages which allow you to set up different means of connecting Ameol to on-line services. Ameol allows you to set up various 'connection cards' that allow you to configure different modems and Internet connections. You can set up new connection cards or edit existing ones by using this command.

.topic 1233
Some Ameol addons can be configured from one central dialog, and this dialog is accessed from this menu command. If you do not have any addons installed that can be configured in this way a message will say so, and you should configure the addons using their normal menu commands.

.topic 651
This menu command will open a sub-menu
from which you can select any of the blink
options that are available.

Internet Only   Conferencing Only   Upload Only
Mail Only   Full   Custom

.topic 652
This menu command will show you the contents of the Ameol help file.

.topic 653
This menu command will copy the currently highlighted text in the message you're writing into the clipboard.

.topic 654
This menu command will open the Copy Message Dialog and allow you to copy the currently highlighted message to another location. Messages can be copied to CIX conferences, newsgroups, e-mail addresses or a local folder. Note that if you do copy a message other than to a local folder, that message will not only be copied in your message database but also on the service to which it relates.

.topic 1067
This menu command will copy a URL-type reference to the current message to the clipboard ready for posting into a message. You can also create a link by dragging a message from the thread window to an edit window

.topic 655
This menu command opens the Create Fax Dialog Box which allows you to send a fax message via the CIX Conferencing system.

.topic 656
This menu command will allow you to create a resume that will be held on the CIX Conferencing system. This resume can contain anything that you would like to share with other users of CIX Conferencing. Note that this menu command will change to Edit My Resume once your resume has been created.

.topic 657
This menu command opens the Customise tab pages which allow you to configure the colours, fonts and keyboard shortcuts thatAmeol uses.

.topic 658
This menu command will remove the currently highlighted text in the message that you're writing and place it in the clipboard.

.topic 659
This menu command will decode the attached file in the current message. Once the file is decoded it will be saved to disk and an icon placed in the message. Double clicking this icon will open the attached file in the relevant application.

.topic 660
This menu command will delete the currently highlighted folder including the messages contained within it.

.topic 661
This menu command will mark the current message for deletion. The message will be deleted from your database when you next purge. To delete messages immediately use the Delete key.

.topic 1047
This menu command opens the Directories tab pages which allow you to select the directories where Ameol will look for data files, resumes, file uploads and downloads amongst others. You can also associate different file extensions with particular directories from the Associations tab.

.topic 662
This menu command opens the Mail Directory Dialog Box which will show you the contents of your CIX Conferencing mail directory. Note that this information will only be as up-to-date as the last time it was downloaded from CIX Conferencing. Click the Update button on the Mail Directory dialog to retrieve the latest list.

.topic 1269
When selected this command will display the current message in your Internet browser.

.topic 663
This menu command opens the Download File Dialog Box to allow you to download a file from the current CIX conference topic. Note that not every topic has a file list for you to download files from.

.topic 664
This menu command opens the Download File Dialog Box which allows you to download a file from your CIX Conferencing mail directory. Note: This command should not be confused with the Download File command on the Conf Menu which will download a file from a CIX Conference.

.topic 665
This menu command opens the Resume Editor and allows you to edit the text of your resume that is held on the CIX Conferencing system.

.topic 666
This menu command opens the Erase File Dialog Box which allows you to erase a file that is held in your mail directory on the CIX Conferencing system.

.topic 667
This menu command will allow you to view the Event Log Dialog Box. The Event Log records the outcome various events so that you detect any problems that Ameol encounters.

.topic 668
This menu command will close Ameol.

.topic 669
This command launches the Export Dialog Box. From here you can export some or all of the Ameol database into an external file.

.topic 670
This menu command opens the Export Mail File Dialog Box which allows you to export a file from your CIX Conferencing mail directory to a CIX conference topic.

.topic 671
This menu command opens the File List Dialog Box which shows you the file list that is attached to the currently highlighted CIX conference topic. Note that not all CIX conferences have file lists attached to them.

.topic 672
This menu command allows you to search the message currently being edited for a particular word or phrase. To search your existing messages choose Search from the File menu.

.topic 673
This menu command opens the Find in File Lists Dialog Box which allows you to search all of the file lists currently held byAmeol for a particular file.

.topic 674
When checked, this menu command will show the text in the message window in a fixed pitch font (Courier) regardless of your custom font settings. This setting does not apply to edit windows, such as those used to create new messages.

.topic 675
This menu command will open the News Article Dialog Box so you can create a reply message to the current newsgroup article. It will automatically quote the original article if you have chosen to do this in the General tab page of the Usenet Settings dialog which can be opened by selecting Usenet from the Settings menu.

.topic 1267
This menu command will open the News Article Dialog Box so you can create a reply message to the current newsgroup article. It will send your reply to all groups to which the original message was sent. It will automatically quote the original article if you have chosen to do this in the General tab page of the Usenet Settings dialog which can be opened by selecting Usenet from the Settings menu.

.topic 676
This menu command allows you to forward a copy of the currently highlighted e-mail message to another e-mail address.

.topic 678
This menu command will open the Newsgroup Selection Dialog Box and allow you to retrieve the new articles in a selected newsgroup the next time Ameol blinks.

.topic 679
This menu command will retrieve any unread e-mail messages when Ameol next blinks.

.topic 681
This menu command will open the Get Tagged Articles Dialog Box and allow you to retrieve the full articles for any newsgroup headers that you have tagged.

.topic 682
This menu command will open the Goto Dialog and allow you to enter the number of the message you'd like to go to, then take you to it.

.topic 683
This menu command will take you to the 'How to Use Help' help file.

.topic 1268
When enabled this option makes URLs clickable.

.topic 684
This menu command will mark the currently highlighted thread of messages as having been read. It will also make the text grey and mark as read any further messages in this thread. If the current message is ignored this menu option will change to Unignore.

.topic 685
This command launches the Import Dialog Box. From here you can select various types of data to import into the Ameol database or into other functions of Ameol, such as the address book.

.topic 686
This menu command will open the In Basket (if it is not currently open).

.topic 687
This menu command allows you to insert a file into the message you are currently writing.

.topic 637
Selecting this Settings menu command will launch the Addons dialog box. You can use this dialog to install or remove Ameol addons.

.topic 688
This menu command opens the Join Conference Dialog Box which allows you to join a CIX conference. You may find it easier to join a conference by using the Show All Conferences command. This will enable you to browse the list of conferences.

.topic 689
This menu command will keep the currently highlighted message in your message database regardless of any purges that are run. When a message is kept this menu command changes to UnKeep.

.topic 690
When checked, this menu command will keep the currently highlighted folder at the top of the In Basket list.

.topic 1272
This command will completely delete a message. A message deleted using Kill can not be undeleted.

.topic 691
This menu command will allow you to show or hide the headers of e-mail and newsgroup articles in the message window.

.topic 1045
This menu command opens the Mail tab pages which allow you to determine how Ameol will send and reply to email.

.topic 693
This menu command will mark all unread messages in the current folder, topic or newsgroup as having been read.

.topic 694
This menu command will mark all unread messages in the current thread as having been read.

.topic 1249
When checked, this menu command turns on message styles in message windows. Message styles turn words surrounded by *asterisks* into bold, those surrounded by _underscores_ underlined and those surrounded by /slashes/ italicised.

.topic 696
This menu command opens the Move Message dialog box which allows you to move the currently highlighted message to another CIX conference topic, newsgroup, e-mail address or local topic.

.topic 1270
This command will create a new category in the inbasket. You can sort folders into any category.

.topic 697
This menu command will create a new folder in the In Basket.

.topic 698
This menu command will open the New Local Topic dialog box so you can create a local topic folder. You can move messages into a local topic folder but it has no effect on the other topics or newsgroups.

.topic 699
This menu command will open the New Mailbox dialog box so you can create a new mailbox folder in the In Basket.

.topic 700
This menu item will open the New Message window. If you choose this command while reading a message, the address of the author of that message will appear in the To: field of the New Message window.

.topic 701
This menu command will open another copy of the message window.

.topic 703
This menu command will take you to the next message at which you have places a bookmark in your message database.

.topic 704
This menu command will take you to the next unread message in your message database.

.topic 705
This menu command will take you to the next unread message that has been marked for priority attention.

.topic 706
This menu command is the opposite of Priority. When you choose this command the current message which is marked for priority attention will be returned to normal status.

.topic 707
This menu command will disconnect Ameol from any on-line service to which it is currently connected.

.topic 708
This menu command will connect to your on-line service and stay connected until you select the Off-line command or click the 'Stop' button.

.topic 709
This menu command will open the file that is attached to the current message in the relevant application.

.topic 710
This menu command will take you to the message that originated the current thread of messages.

.topic 711
This menu command will open the Out Basket if it is not already open.

.topic 712
This menu command opens the Page Setup Dialog which allows you to specify the layout of any pages that you print fromAmeol.

.topic 713
This menu command opens the Participants Dialog Box which will show you the list of participants and moderators in the currently highlighted CIX Conference.

.topic 714
This menu command will paste the current contents of the clipboard into the message that you're writing.

.topic 715
This menu command will open the News Article Dialog Box for you to enter the text of the new newsgroup article.

.topic 716
This menu command opens the Preferences tab pages which allows you to set general, reading, viewing, purge and spelling options for Ameol.

.topic 717
This menu command will take you to the previous message at which you have placed a bookmark in your message database.

.topic 718
This menu command opens the Print Dialog Box which allows you to specify the message or range of messages that you would like to print. You can also use this command to print the current message that you are writing, the current list of participants or moderators, the contents of the terminal window or the CIX Conferencing user resume that you are reading.

.topic 719
This menu command opens the Print Setup dialog box which allows you to setup your printer for use with Ameol.

.topic 720
This menu command allows you to mark the current message for priority attention. If the current message is already marked priority this menu command will be Normal.

.topic 721
This menu command will open the Properties Dialog for the currently highlighted folder.

.topic 722
This menu command will initiate a purge of the current folder.  A purge will remove messages from your message database dependant on the purge settings that you have chosen. You can set the purge settings from the Purge Settings Dialog Box.

.topic 1048
This menu command opens the Purge Options dialog box which allows you to set purge parameters for all folders.

.topic 723
This menu command will copy the text of the message that you are replying to into your reply. Each line of the quoted text will be preceded by a '>' character to indicate that it is quoted text.

.topic 1292
This command will open the message window on the main mailbox.

.topic 724
This menu command will mark the current unread message as having been read. If the current message has been read this command will change to Unread.

.topic 1293
This command will open the message window on the first newsgroup in your News folder.

.topic 725
This menu command will mark the current message read-locked. This means that this message will always remain marked as unread and, if you only read the unread messages in your database, you will see this message every time. If the current message is already locked this menu item will change to Read Unlock.

.topic 726
This menu command is the opposite of Read Lock. This command will return the current read-locked message to normal status.

.topic 727
This menu command will allow you to rename the current folder in the In Basket.

.topic 728
This menu command opens the Rename Mail File Dialog Box which allows you to rename a file that is in your CIX Conferencing mail directory.

.topic 729
This menu command will allow you to search for a word or string of characters and replace them with another word or string of characters.

.topic 730
This menu command will open the New Message window with the To: field filled in with the addresses of all of the recipients of the original mail message.

.topic 731
This menu command will open the New Message window with the To: field filled in with the address of the first recipient of the original mail message.

.topic 1273
This command will copy a message from a Conferencing topic to another Conferencing topic, but will use your local copy of the message as the source.

.topic 732
This menu command enables you to resign the current CIX Conferencing topic or conference. You can resign one or more topics in a conference without resigning the entire conference. You can also resign complete conferences by selecting the conference folder and selecting this command.

.topic 733
This menu command opens the Resumes Dialog Box and will show you the list of resumes currently held by Ameol.

.topic 1098
The Rethread Messages command will scan the highlighted usenet or mail topic and attempt to rethread the messages. This can be useful when mis-threading occurs.

.topic 734
This menu command will rotate the currently selected text through 13 characters. For instance A will become N, M will become Z and N will become A. This is a simple way of disguising the text of your message.

.topic 735
This menu command opens the Rules Manager dialog box which allows you to set rules for messages received by Ameol. For instance you might want mail messages from a certain person to be copied to a separate folder or any messages that contain a certain word to be marked for priority attention.

.topic 736
This menu command will open the New Message Editor and allow you to post an original or 'say' message to the current CIX conference topic.

.topic 737
This menu command opens the Scheduler window. The scheduler enables you to set Ameol actions to happen at a specified time or time interval. For instance you may want Ameol to collect any new mail messages every hour or post a newsgroup article next Friday.

.topic 738
This menu command opens the Scripts Dialog Box. Scripts allow you to add various CIX Conferencing system commands to the Out Basket so that they will be executed the next time Ameol connects to CIX Conferencing.

.topic 739
This menu command opens the Find Dialog Box which allows you to perform a search through your message database. You can search for a word, string of characters or a message author.

.topic 740
This menu command will open the help file in search mode.

.topic 741
This menu command will select (highlight) all of the text in the message that you are currently writing.

.topic 742
This menu command opens the Send Mail File Dialog Box which allows you to send a file to another user of the CIX Conferencing system using binary format or UUEncoded to an external address.

.topic 1070
This menu command allows you to send the current message across a network by MS Mail. This command is not available if a MAPI server is not available on your network. See your network administrator for more information on MAPI.

.topic 743
This menu command opens the Full List of CIX Conferences Dialog Box which displays a full list of CIX conferences. Note that this list will only be as up-to-date as the last time it was downloaded from CIX Conferencing. Click the Update button to get the latest copy.

.topic 744
This menu command will open the Usenet Newsgroups List. Note that this list will only be as up-to-date as the last time it was downloaded. Click the Update button to get the latest copy.

.topic 745
This menu command opens the Full List of CIX Participants Dialog Box which shows a complete list of subscribers to the CIX Conferencing system. Note that this list will only be as up-to-date as the last time it was downloaded from CIX. Click the Update button to retrieve the latest copy.

.topic 746
This menu command will open a sub menu for you to choose which columns of information are shown in the message window. You can show the message number, author, date, size and subject.

.topic 748
This menu command will show the resume for the author of the current message. If Ameol does not hold the resume it will be downloaded during the next blink.

.topic 1297
This command opens the Show Tips dialog box, conatining useful tips about using Ameol and CIX.

.topic 1298
This command will open the startup wizard, from where you can read the Ameol Guide or set up your Profiles.

.topic 749
This menu command opens the Signature dialog box which allows you to set signatures that you can append to the end of any of the messages that you write.

.topic 750
This menu command will open a sub menu allowing you to choose how the messages displayed in the message window will be sorted. You can sort by the message reference number, root message of the thread, Ameol message number, message author, date, size and subject. You can also sort any of these in ascending or descending order.

.topic 1042
This menu command will open the Sort Mail From Dialog. This is an easy way to create a rule based on who the current mail message is from.

.topic 1043
This menu command opens the Sort Mail To Dialog which is an easy way to create a rule based on who the current mail message is to.

.topic 1319
This command will alphabetically sort the items within the currently highlighted conference or category.

.topic 751
This menu command will show or hide the Ameol status bar at the bottom of the screen.

.topic 752
This menu command will stop the current import procedure.

.topic 753
This menu command will allow you to submit a report to the CIX Conferencing system. When you have completed the report it will be added to the Out Basket and posted to CIX Conferencing during the next blink.

.topic 754
This menu command opens the Subscribe Dialog Box which allows you to subscribe to a Usenet newsgroup. You may find it easier to use the Show All Newsgroups menu command and select a newsgroup from the list.

.topic 755
This menu command will allow you to 'tag' a newsgroup article header. Ameol will retrieve the full article for any tagged newsgroup headers during the next blink. When the current message is already tagged this command will change to Untag.

.topic 756
This menu command opens the Terminal Dialog Box which allows you to connect to an on-line service without using theAmeol interface.

.topic 757
This menu command will arrange any open windows with each window taking the full width of the screen.

.topic 758
This menu command will arrange any open windows with each window taking the full height of the screen.

.topic 759
This menu command opens the Toolbar Customisation tab pages which allow you to select which buttons will appear on the toolbar.

.topic 760
This menu command will show or hide the Ameol toolbar.

.topic 1271
Select this option to display a helpful tip about Ameol or CIX. You can also choose to have a tip displayed every time you start up Ameol.

.topic 761
This menu command will unmark the current message that is marked for deletion during the next purge. It will not restore a message that has already been removed from your message database. If the current message is not marked for deletion this menu command changes to Delete.

.topic 762
This menu command will undo the last action that you made when writing a message. The undo command does not apply outside creating and editing messages.

.topic 763
This menu command will reverse the action of marking a thread to be ignored. The status of the current message and the thread to which it belongs will be returned to normal. If the current message is not ignored this menu command will be Ignore.

.topic 764
This menu command will unmark a message that is marked to be kept. The status of this message will be returned to normal so that it can be removed during a purge. If the current message is not kept this menu option will read Keep.

.topic 765
This menu command will remove the bookmark that has been placed at the current message. If the current message is not bookmarked this menu command will read Bookmark.

.topic 766
This menu command will mark the current message as not having been read. If the message is already unread this menu command will be Read.

.topic 1253
This command will remove the selected group from your list of newsgroups. You will collect no further messages in this group.

.topic 767
This menu command will remove the Tag from a newsgroup article header.

.topic 768
This menu command opens the Upload File Dialog Box which allows you to upload a file to the currently highlighted CIX conference. Bear in mind that not every CIX conference has a file list attached.

Note: This command allows you to upload a file to a CIX Conference and should not be confused with the Upload File command in the Mail Menu which will upload a file to your CIX Mail Directory.

.topic 769
This menu command enables you to upload a file to your Mail directory on the CIX Conferencing system.

Note: This command should not be confused with the Upload File command in the Conf Menu which will upload a file to a CIX Conference.

.topic 770
This menu command opens the Usenet tab pages which allow you to set options for how Ameol will deal with Usenet newsgroups and any articles and headers that are posted or downloaded.

.topic 771
This menu command opens the Users Dialog Box which allows you to set up user accounts for use with Ameol. Each of these accounts can have entirely different settings for communications and Ameol options.

.topic 772
The Watch menu command applies only to Usenet newsgroup articles. When you place a 'watch' on a newsgroup article, Ameol will detect any comments relating to this article and automatically download the full article rather than just the header. This command is a toggle so applying watch to a header that is already marked as watched will remove the watch status.

.topic 773
This menu command will allow you to withdraw a CIX conference message or Usenet newsgroup article. A CIX Conferencing message will be withdrawn the next time that Ameol connects to CIX Conferencing. Withdrawing newsgroup articles is less straightforward because the message that Ameol sends to withdraw your article has to follow the article around the Internet. Note that the copy of the message within your database will not be deleted but will be marked with a `W'.

.topic 1232
This View Menu command will wrap the message in the current message window so that it is contained within the edges of the window.

.topic 1011


.topic 776
This sub menu command allows you to select the sort order for the messages displayed in the message window. If there is a tick beside this command that means that the list is sorted in ascending order, if not it is sorted in descending order.

.topic 774
This sub menu command will run the Conferencing Only blink item. You can define the properties for this blink by selecting the Blink tab of the Communications item of the Settings menu.

.topic 777
This sub menu command allows you to set the properties for the blink that you are about to perform without having to use the blink or the full Ameol blink.

.topic 778
This sub menu command shows and hides the date column in the message window.

.topic 779
This sub menu command allows you to sort the messages displayed in the message window by the date of the message.

.topic 780
This sub menu command will perform a full Ameol blink.

.topic 775
This sub menu command will run the Internet Only blink item. You can define the properties for this blink by selecting Communications from the Settings menu.

.topic 781
This sub menu command will run the Mail Only blink item. You can define the properties for this blink by selecting Communications from the Settings menu.

.topic 782
This sub menu command will show or hide the Name column in the message window.

.topic 783
This sub menu command enables you to sort the messages displayed in the message window by the name of the author.

.topic 784
This sub menu command will show or hide the Ameol message number column in the message window.

.topic 785
This sub menu command allows you to sort the messages displayed in the message window by their Ameol message number.

.topic 786
This sub menu command enables you to sort the messages displayed in the message window by the message reference number. This reference number is not necessarily the same as the Ameol message number.

.topic 787
This sub menu command allows you to sort the messages displayed in the message window by the root messages of the message threads.

.topic 788
This sub menu command will show or hide the message size column in the message window.

.topic 789
This menu sub command enables you to sort the messages displayed in the message window by the message size.

.topic 790
This sub menu command will show or hide the message subject column in the message window.

.topic 791
This sub menu command allows you to sort the messages displayed in the message window by the message subject.

.topic 792
This sub menu command will run the Upload Only blink item. You can define the properties for this blink by selecting Communications from the Settings menu.

.topic 1012


.topic 795
This Import list item will allow you to import the contents of an Ameol, Ameol2, Virtual Access, Win/DOSCIM or CSV address book file,

.topic 796
This Import list item will allow you to import the contents of an Ameol database including all messages, resumes, signatures, address book and all CIX Conferencing based lists.

.topic 1031
This import option is used to import any scratchpad created by using the Export command in Ameol version 1.

.topic 797
This terminal emulation allows for colours, keyboard control and screen layout options. This is the preferred emulation for use with the Terminal window.

.topic 798
This CIX Conferencing script allows you to change your password on the CIX Conferencing system. When you select this script to be added to the Out Basket you will be asked to provide your current password. Next you will be asked to enter your new password twice. Ameol does not check that the new passwords match, but the CIX system does. If your new passwords do not match your password will remain unchanged.

.topic 1305
This script allows you to see if your conferencing email is being forwarded to your POP3 mailbox.

.topic 799
This Import list item will allow you to import the contents of an Ameol CIX conference list file.

.topic 800
This CIX Conferencing script allows you use the FFIND command on the CIX Conferencing system. Before this item is added to the Out Basket you will be asked to provide the text with which to perform the search and also the name of a file into which you would like the results to be saved.

.topic 801
This CIX Conferencing script allows you to use the FILESTATS command on the CIX Conferencing system. The FILESTATS command gives a list of the files in a topic and how many times they've been downloaded since a given date. You will be asked to choose the name of the conference topic from the list of conferences as it appears in the In Basket. You will also be asked to specify a filename into which the results will be saved.

.topic 802
This list box item in the Export dialog, allows you to export data from Ameol in the form of a CIX Scratchpad text file.

.topic 803
This Import list item will allow you to import the contents of a CIX Scratchpad file. This format is used for scratchpads downloaded from the CIX Conferencing system, scratchpads created by exporting from Ameol or any other OLR, and importing TXT files from the Ameol data directory. This option also supports wildcards for importing a number of files.


.topic 804
This Import list item will allow you to import the contents of an Ameol CIX Users list file.

.topic 805
This Import list item will allow you to import the contents of a Compuserve Address Book into the Ameol Address Book.

.topic 793
This is an option that comes pre-configured with Ameol. If you use this blink option you will carry out all the CIX Conferencing commands when you blink but you won't carry out any commands that you would normally use with your Internet service.

You can view and edit the properties for this, or any other of the items in the Current Blink Actions list by clicking the Edit button.

.topic 806
This CIX Conferencing script will give you a complete and up-to-date list of the conferences that you are currently a participant in on the CIX Conferencing system. The script will go to every topic in every conference that you are joined to and mark at least one message as unread. When you next blink with Ameol you will retrieve these messages and in this way build up a complete list of every conference and topic. Before running this script you should ensure that your Timeout value for the blink item you are using is set to at least 300 seconds as no information will be received by Ameol while this script is running.

.topic 807
This is a blink option that comes with Ameol. This option is not pre-configured.

You can view and edit the properties for this, or any other of the items in the Current Blink Actions list by clicking the Edit button.

.topic 1306
This script will download the list of conferences to which you are joined.

.topic 808
This CIX Conferencing script allows you to search an archie site for other sites that hold files that match certain criteria. Archie is an Internet service that maintains a database of all the files and directories of sites that offer anonymous FTP file downloads. You will be asked to specify the text with which to perform the search and the site to search on (this is optional).

.topic 1307
This script will attempt to fetch a web page via the CIX Conferencing internet gateway.

.topic 1308
This script will attempt to retreive a PGP key file.

.topic 809
This CIX Conferencing script will search the CIX Conferencing system for information about another user of the system. The information retrieved includes their name, CIX Conferencing nickname and the time and date of their last login. You will be asked to enter text with which to search and to specify a file into which the search results will be saved. This script will search for CIX Conferencing nicknames or real names and you can use wildcard characters in the search text.

.topic 1309
This script will send a finger request via email. The result will be emailed back to you.

.topic 810
This CIX Conferencing script will run the FINGER command. This command checks if a user is logged on to a particular machine that is on the Internet. This command is not limited to users of the CIX Conferencing system. You will be asked to specify the e-mail address of the user that you wish to 'finger'.

.topic 812
This emulation option provides very limited emulation capabilities but should be compatible with most remote computers that you connect to via the Terminal window.

.topic 811
This is a blink option that comes with Ameol. This option is pre-configured to blink with both your Internet service and CIX Conferencing.

You can view and edit the properties for this, or any other of the items in the Current Blink Actions list by clicking the Edit button.

.topic 813
This CIX Conferencing script will retrieve a range of messages from the CIX Conferencing system. You will be asked to choose the conference topic that you wish to retrieve messages from and also the numbers of the first and last messages you wish to retrieve. You will also need to specify a file into which these messages will be saved.

.topic 814
This CIX Conferencing script will download any files that are in your >ip directory on the CIX Conferencing system. This directory contains any files that you have retrieved using FTP from a remote site. If any files are downloaded they will be saved into the download directory of your Ameol installation.

.topic 817
This CIX Conferencing script will retrieve a file that you would normally have to download using ftp and send it to you via an e-mail message. You will be asked to provide the name of the ftp site where the file can be found, the path of the directory in which it can be found and the name of the file. Your request will be added to a queue and you will receive the file via e-mail when your request has reached the top of the queue.

.topic 815
This CIX Conferencing script will allow you to download a file or batch of files from an FTP site through the CIX Conferencing system.  You will be asked to specify the name of the site from which you wish to download the file(s) and also the full path and filename of the file(s). The files that you download using this script will be saved to your >ip directory on the CIX Conferencing system. Use the Get any files in your >ip directory script to download them to your computer.

.topic 1310
This script will download details about your address, payment details, when you first connected to CIX and the number of calls you have made.

.topic 816
This CIX Conferencing script will retrieve the details of your charges for the CIX Conferencing system. You will be asked to provide the month and then the year for which you wish to retrieve your charge information. You will also need to specify a file into which to save the information that is downloaded.

.topic 818
This CIX Conferencing script enables you to retrieve a file from an ftp site and download it to the download directory in your Ameol installation. You will be asked to provide the name the site that the file can be found on, the directory in which it can be found, and the name(s) of the file(s) that you wish to download. You can enter multiple filenames by putting a space between the names. The file(s) will be downloaded via the CIX Conferencing system and then downloaded to your computer.

.topic 819
This CIX Conferencing script will retrieve the complete directory structure of a specified FTP site. You should be aware that this will be the full directory listing so for a large site the resulting file could be several megabytes. You will be asked to specify the FTP site, the top level directory (the directory at which you'd like the structure to start)  and a filename that the downloaded structure will be saved to on your computer.

.topic 820
This CIX Conferencing script will get the listing of directories from a single FTP site directory. For a full directory listing use the Get FTP recursive directory of a UNIX site script. You will be asked to specify the FTP site, the directory for which you want a listing and a filename for the downloaded information to be saved into.

.topic 821
This CIX Conferencing script will retrieve the date and time from the CIX Conferencing system and update your PC with this information.

.topic 822
This CIX Conferencing script allows you to retrieve your profile from the CIX Conferencing system. The file will be saved as profile.txt in your download directory. You can edit this file using any text editor but you must save it in plain ASCII format. Before adding any commands to it, try them out first to check that they do what you expected. You should also avoid any commands that require user input. Upload your edited profile by using the Put profile.txt script.

.topic 823
This CIX Conferencing script will retrieve an RFC (Request For Comments) specification document. These documents outline Internet standards. You will be asked for the RFC document's specification number.

.topic 825
This CIX Conferencing script will return your profile to the default settings. The default profile is optimised for users of Ameol. If you are having problems with your profile on the CIX Conferencing system then you can run this script to return your profile to normal.

.topic 1040
This script will install the CIX Conferencing debugging profile which can help diagnose some problems. You should only use this script under the instruction of a member of the support staff.

.topic 826
This CIX Conferencing script will show you the contents of an archive (.ZIP or .ARC) file on the CIX Conferencing system. The list of files contained in the archive file will be saved to a file called FAT.TXT in your \download directory in your Ameol setup. You will be asked to choose the conference topic where the archive file can be found from a list that resembles that found in the In Basket. You will also need to specify the name of the archive file.

.topic 794
This blink item is set up to blink only with your Internet service. You can edit the properties of this item by clicking the Edit button on the Blink dialog.

.topic 827
This CIX Conferencing script allows you to send large text files (over about 30K). You can mail such a file to any e-mail address. Your file must be plain ASCII text, you cannot send other types of file using this script. You will be asked to locate the file you wish to send and the full e-mail address of the intended recipient. If the person that you are sending to is also a user of CIX Conferencing you can just enter their CIX Conferencing nickname.

.topic 1311
This script will send a request for a Microsoft Knowledge Base article by mail. The result will be mailed back to you.

.topic 828
This is a blink option that comes with Ameol. This option is pre-configured to process e-mail actions only.

You can view and edit the properties for this, or any other of the items in the Current Blink Actions list by clicking the Edit button.

.topic 829
This CIX Conferencing script will upload your profile.txt file to CIX Conferencing and is normally used in conjunction with the Get profile.txt script. The profile.txt file must be located in your \download directory since this is where the Get profile.txt will put the file.

If you have modified the profile.txt file incorrectly, Ameol may not be able to connect to CIX Conferencing once this file has been uploaded. Should this happen, use a the Terminal command in the File menu to connect to CIX Conferencing. Alternatively you can use any standard terminal emulation software.

When you see the logon prompt type the following lines, pressing the Enter key at the end of each line.

qix
<Your CIX Conferencing nickname>
<Your password>

When you see the Main: prompt, type the following lines, pressing the Enter key at the end of each line.

join ameolnews/faq		(If you are not already joined to this, press Enter when asked to join)
killscratch
file type profile.txt
scput profile
bye

If this doesn't work, or if you need further help, contact CIX technical support.



.topic 830
This CIX Conferencing script will reset your CIX Conferencing pointers back a specified number of days. Your pointers are the settings on CIX Conferencing that tell the CIX system which conferences you are joined to and which messages you have read. CIX pointers are saved around midnight each day so if you reset your pointers for today use the Restore pointers script. You will be asked to specify the number of days that you need your pointers to go back. Note that if you have joined or resigned any conferences since your pointers were set you will lose these settings.

.topic 831
This CIX Conferencing script will reset your CIX Conferencing pointers back to how they were set this morning. Your pointers are the settings on CIX Conferencing that tell the CIX system which conferences you are joined to and which messages you have read. CIX pointers are saved around midnight each day. Note that if you have joined or resigned any conferences since your pointers were set you will lose these settings.

.topic 1185
This script will download conference information, including the names of the moderators, to a file on your hard disk. You need to supply the conference name and the name of the file to download to.

.topic 833
This CIX Conferencing script will download a list of the newsgroups that you currently subscribe to on the CIX Conferencing system. Note that if you subscribe to other newsgroups using the CIX Internet system or other service, these will not be included in the list.

.topic 832
This CIX Conferencing script will set an absence message for you on the CIX Conferencing system. This message will be displayed to other users of CIX Conferencing who send you e-mail messages. You will be asked for the start and end dates of your absence.

.topic 1312
This script sets mail forwarding so your conferencing mail is left in your conferencing mailbox.

.topic 1313
This script sets mail forwarding so your conferencing mail is forwarded to your CIX POP3 mailbox.

.topic 1314
This script will skip back of few messages on CIX, so you can re-retreive some messages.

.topic 834
This CIX Conferencing script will search through the messages in a CIX conference topic for the text that you specify.  A list of the message numbers that have text that matches your search criteria will be downloaded to your computer. You will be asked to choose the conference and topic that you wish to search from a list that resembles that shown in the In Basket. You will also be asked to specify the text that you wish to search for.

.topic 835
This is a blink option that comes with Ameol. This option is pre-configured to upload files only.

You can view and edit the properties for this, or any other of the items in the Current Blink Actions list by clicking the Edit button.

.topic 1013


.topic 838
This label shows the author of the Ameol addon. This information is include in the addon file and so the information displayed will have been provided by the author of the addon not by Ameol.

.topic 1096
This label shows the access permissions for the selected item. This is currently not used within Ameol and is reserved for future versions.

.topic 1154
The CIX conference list is sorted into categories such as Business, Computing, Educational, Social.

.topic 1301
This area displays the category, conference or topic on which this action will be performed.

.topic 1155
This column indicates the conference status. A lock symbol indicates the conference is closed. To join a closed conference you need to mail the moderators.

.topic 1095
This label displays the user name of the creator of this item.

.topic 839
This label displays the date that the current item was created in your Ameol message database.

.topic 1086
This section shows what command if any is already assigned to the key combination you entered.

.topic 840
This label shows the name of the file in which the data from this folder is stored.

.topic 1099
This label gives you an example of how your selected date format will look within Ameol.

.topic 841
This label will give a description of the currently highlighted Ameol command.

.topic 1148
The directory name of the user being edited.

.topic 842
This label shows the amount of disk space in kilobytes that is used by the current folder.

.topic 1153
The total number of entries in this list.

.topic 843
This label shows the amount of disk space in bytes that is used by the current mugshot file.

.topic 844
This label shows the file name of the Ameol addon program.

.topic 1091
This label displays the name of the current folder.

.topic 1242
The name of the address book group to which you are adding addresses. you can change the group name by selecting Edit from the main address book dialog.

.topic 845
This label shows the name of the index file used by the current folder.

.topic 1158
This label shows you the last time this list was updated.

.topic 1147
The login name of the user being edited.

.topic 1216
This status bar shows you the current message number, the author of that message, the date and time that message was posted, whether the message is a comment to another message and the total number of unread messages in the current folder.

.topic 1217
This window displays the text of the current message. If there is more that a page of text, use the page down key to see more of the message. In this message you can also see some examples of Hot Links.

.topic 1214
This column displays the name of the authors of the messages.

.topic 1291
This area contains the mini in-basket. This is a simpler version of the main in basket (which can be seen by selecting In Basket from the View menu). You can change topics, get statistics about a topic and perform many more tasks from here.

.topic 846
This label shows the number messages at which bookmarks have been placed in the current database item.

.topic 847
This label shows the number of messages that have been marked for priority attention in the current database item.

.topic 848
This label shows the number of messages that are marked as having not been read in the current database item.

.topic 1213
The numbers of the messages in this topic.

.topic 1177
This label displays the printer that will be used to print the messages.

.topic 849
This label shows which versions of Ameol the current addon will work with.

.topic 1228
This shows when this resume was last downloaded from CIX Conferencing.

.topic 1215
This column shows the subject (or first line) of the messages.

.topic 850
This label shows the total number of messages held in the current item (folder, topic or database).

.topic 851
This label shows the folder type of the current folder.

.topic 852
This label shows the version number of the current Ameol addon.

.topic 1014
Glossary Items

.topic 853

An Addon is a program that can be installed to run with Ameol. This program runs in conjunction with Ameol to provide extra functionality or to perform specific tasks.

Addon programs are often written by programmers who use the CIX Conferencing system. These programs, however, are not guaranteed by CIX Conferencing and no responsibility can be taken for their performance or otherwise.



.topic 854

The Address book holds the names and e-mail address of anybody that you care to enter. These address can then be retrieved and copied into any messages that you are sending to save having to enter the address directly.

The Ameol address book can also store names in groups so that it is easier to find the name or group of names that you would like to send a message to. In addition you can also store comments, a PGP key and a picture of the person.

.topic 855

When exporting messages from your Ameol message database you are given the option of appending messages to an existing file. This will add the new messages to the file without overwriting the existing data.

This can be useful if you are keeping files of messages as a backup or as archives for particular types of messages or subjects.

.topic 856

An Archive file is a copy of a file that Ameol has already imported. When you download messages from an on-line service, these messages are amalgamated into a single file which Ameol then imports into your message database.

Once imported, these files are saved as archive files. Ameol will save the last ten file that you downloaded into archive files. By default these files are saved to the \Archive directory in your Ameol installation. Connect, mail, news and outgoing message logs can also be stored in this directory.

.topic 857

An Association refers to a file type and an application. For instance files that end with the extension .DOC are generally Microsoft Word document files. Files of this type and the application that creates them are associated within the operating system. This means that when you open a file with the .DOC extension the file is opened in Word. Similarly a picture file with the extension .BMP will be opened in a graphics application.
Ameol uses these associations when decoding attached files. When decoded, an attached file will be shown in the message as an icon for the associated application. This means that if you are send a Word document as an attached file to an e-mail message, when decoded this file will be shown as the icon for Microsoft Word with the name of the file underneath. Double clicking this icon will open the attached file in Microsoft Word.
Ameol also associates file types with directories. When you download files, by default Ameol will save them in the Download directory. However, by selecting the Associations command from the Settings menu you can set Ameol to download different file types into different directories.

.topic 858

Attachments are files of any type that are included with a message. Since messages have to be sent as text, sending a file with a message means that its has to be encoded as text before it can be added to the message. Ameol supports two methods of encoding files as text - Uuencoding and MIME.


.topic 859

Baud is the rate at which data is sent over a telephone line. This rate will be dictate by the kind of modem that you have.

.topic 860

Binmail is a CIX Conferencing system term. The CIX Conferencing system allows you to send a file from your CIX Conferencing mail directory to the mail directory of another user of the CIX system. This process does not require the file to be encoded as text.

.topic 861

Blink means to connect to an on-line service, process any commands that you require, automatically download all of your messages and files and then disconnect from the service. This saves connection time to your on-line service.

You can configure how Ameol blinks, controlling the service that it connects to and also the actions that it performs and what it downloads.

.topic 862

A Bookmark is a way of marking a message such that it can easily be found later. You can place a bookmark at a message by selecting Mark from the Message menu or by pressing 'M'. This will change the colour of the message in the list.

You can find your bookmark by clicking the Next and Previous Bookmark buttons on the toolbar or by pressing F9 and Shift+F9.

.topic 863

Check (launched by selecting Check from the Folder menu) will scan your message database, and check for any inconsistencies or errors.

.topic 864

Check and Repair (launched by selecting Check from the Folder menu) will scan your message database, check for any inconsistencies or errors and fix any problems that are found.

.topic 865

Collapsed refers to the tree-view display that can be found in, for example, the In Basket. When the tree view shows just a closed folder, the tree is said to be collapsed. When you click the + symbol beside the folder, the contents are displayed in a tree-like structure and the folder is shown as open. This is referred to as an expanded view.

When the tree is expanded, you will notice that the + symbol has changed to a - symbol. If you click this - symbol, the contents of the folder will disappear, the folder will be shown as closed and the - symbol will revert to a +.

.topic 866

A Comment is a message that is posted in response to or as a reply to a message that has already been posted. For instance, in a CIX conference, somebody may post a message asking a question. If you reply to this question, your message will be a comment message.

To post a comment to the current message, select Comment from the Message menu or press 'C'.

.topic 867

Compuserve is an on-line service provider based in America.

.topic 868

A conference is a subject area within the CIX Conferencing system where messages are posted which can be read by all members of the conference. CIX Conferences exist in three forms - open (anybody can join), closed (conference will be listed but you can only be joined by a moderator) and closed confidential (not listed).

There are lots of conferences on the CIX Conferencing system covering all manner of subjects and each of these is overseen by a moderator. A CIX Conferencing conference can also hold files that can be downloaded by members of the conference.

For a full list of CIX conferences select the Show All Conferences from the Conf Menu.

.topic 869

Connect means to establish a link to an on-line service and logon to that service. Logging on to the service may require the entering of a user name and a password.

.topic 870

The Connect Log is a file that records the connections that Ameol makes to CIX Conferencing. Your last connection is recorded in the connect.log file that can be found in your user directory (by default ~\ameol2\users\admin). You can open this file in any text editor.

.topic 871

A custom dictionary is a file into which you save words that are not in the standard spell checker dictionary. For instance if you find your are using a number of medical terms that are not in the standard dictionary, you can add them to this file. It is possible to have a number of custom dictionaries in use at any one time.

.topic 872

Dial-Up Networking (DUN) is a feature of Microsoft Windows 95 that allows you to establish a remote connection to a server via a modem. The equivalent feature in WindowsNT is called Remote Access Server (RAS).

For more details on how to use this feature consult the help file or user manual for your operating system.

.topic 873

A directory is an area on a disk that contains files. This directory is not a physical piece of the disk but the way in which the operating system allows you to put files into a logical order.
Ameol uses different directories for the various program and data files that it uses and you can configure which directories Ameol will use by selecting the Associations command on the Settings menu.

.topic 874

Download refers to the retrieval of messages or files from an on-line service and transferral of that data from the service's computer to your computer.

.topic 875

E-mail refers to messages that are sent to one or more separate e-mail addresses and cannot be read by anyone other than the recipient(s) of the message. For instance, if you send an e-mail message to joebloggs@cix.co.uk only Joe will be able to read your message. If you post a message to a CIX conference or a Usenet Newsgroup, then anybody who is a member of or subscribes to that conference or newsgroup will be able to read your message.

.topic 876

The Event Log records actions that Ameol makes and also the outcome of those actions. You can configure the events that are recorded and also the number of past actions that are stored.

.topic 877

Expanded refers to the tree-view display that can be found in, for example, the In Basket. When the tree view shows just a closed folder, the tree is said to be collapsed. When you click the + symbol beside the folder, the contents are displayed in a tree-like structure and the folder is shown as open. This is referred to as an expanded view.

When the tree is expanded, you will notice that the + symbol has changed to a - symbol. If you click this - symbol, the contents of the folder will disappear, the folder will be shown as closed and the - symbol will revert to a +.

.topic 878

Export refers to the copying of data out of Ameol's database into a separate file.

.topic 879

FAQ stands for Frequently Asked Question. This is a term that you will probably encounter frequently in Usenet Newsgroups and CIX conferences.

.topic 880

In the context of Ameol, a fax is an electronic document that can be sent via the CIX Conferencing system to a specified fax number. These fax messages are text only.

.topic 881

The Ameol Fax Address book is separate from the main Address Book. This book holds names and fax numbers only.

.topic 882

Some CIX Conferencing conference topics have file lists attached to them. Only the moderators of a conference can add or remove a file from these lists, so if you'd like a file to be included you will have to upload the file to the conference. Ameol will send a message to the moderators to tell them to include it in the list.

If Ameol holds a file list for a conference topic there will be an 'F' shown next to it in the In Basket.

.topic 883

File Transfer Protocol or FTP is a standard for the transferral of data that is used across the Internet. Using FTP you can download files from any file server on the Internet that allows users to download files. Many file servers will not require you to have a user account to use FTP. This is known as anonymous FTP because you don't need a login name or a password.

.topic 884
Ameol allows you to find messages via the Search command in the File Menu and files via the Find in File Lists command. You can also search the lists of CIX Conferences, Usenet Newsgroups and CIX Conferencing Users.


.topic 885

A fixed pitch font is one where the letters all have the same width. The Courier font (like a typewriter) is such a font. Other fonts with different letter widths are known as proportional fonts.

Here are some examples:

Fixed Pitch Font (Courier)

ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz

Proportional Font (Times New Roman)

ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz



.topic 1278

What are forms?

First of all:

Forms are rather complex and we recommend that only advanced Ameol2
users try them.

Forms are an extension to the rules in Ameol2. Using a form is an extra action that can be triggered by a rule. Any  message which matches the rule can instruct Ameol2 to e-mail a predefined mail message back to the sender of that message. Forms are not completely integrated into Ameol2 and support for them is done on a "best-effort" basis. This means the ultimate resolution to a problem may be "stop using forms." The use of forms is only supported in v2.12.1885 and above.

Mail forms are text files that are stored in the FORMS subdirectory in the Ameol2 base directory and must have the extension .afm. If any forms are found when Ameol2 is started up an extra entry, "Mail Form" will appear on the Edit Rule dialog (Settings|Rules|New).

Ameol2 reads the forms directly once only, when it starts up. If you add extra forms while Ameol2 is running you have to exit and restart Ameol2 before the new forms can be seen.


Examples

I can get e-mail to enquiries@mycompany.co.uk with a Subject line of 'Prices'. I set up a rule to match 'Prices' in the Subject field and to e-mail the sender the current price list in response. (N.B., This is an example and is not in real use.)

A sample mail form that would fulfill this function is:

    To: $FROM$
    Subject: Our price list

    Thanks for your enquiry about our pricing. A price list is
    enclosed below.
    ...

A mail form is divided into two parts. The header part contains instructions to fill the To:, CC:, Subject, and Reply To: fields of the outgoing mail message. Then a blank line separates the header from the text body part.

In the above example, the name of the recipient is picked up from the $FROM$ macro which is filled in with the sender of the message which matched the rule. In the example, if I e-mailed enquiries@mycompany.co.uk from an account called test@cix.co.uk, the $FROM$ macro will expand to 'test@cix.co.uk'. $FROM$ does not use the Reply-To address of an incoming mail message.

The text body part also permits a macro called $INCLUDE$ which will pull in the contents of another file. Thus:

    Thanks for your enquiry about our pricing. A price list is
    enclosed below.

    $INCLUDE$  C:\Ameol2\Pricing\Pricing.txt

would retrieve the current price list from that location.

Even better, the pathname in the $INCLUDE$ macro can contain a macro. You can use this facility to set up an automatic help system. In this example, I can e-mail help@mycompany.co.uk and specify a help topic in the subject field. The mail form created for the help folder in Ameol2 is as follows:

    To: $FROM$
    Subject: Help on $SUBJECT$

    $INCLUDE$ C:\Ameol2\Helpfiles\$SUBJECT$.TXT

Thus if I mail help@mycompany.co.uk a message with a Subject of 'Features', the mail form will expand to:

    To: author
    Subject: Help on Rules

    $INCLUDE$ C:\Ameol2\Helpfiles\Features.txt

and will pull in the contents of Features.txt at this point in the message.

What happens if the user specifies a subject that doesn't match? If the $INCLUDE$ fails then Ameol2 will look for a file called !ERROR!.TXT in the given directory. This file can be set up to contain the following:

     Sorry, there is no help on this subject. A full list of valid
     subjects appear below:
     ...

If !ERROR!.TXT is not found, then an error is embedded in the outgoing form.

You can also return files via mail forms. The extra header field, Attachment, will attach a file in the mail message. If the recipient address is on CIX, the file is sent as binmail otherwise it is sent uuencoded/base64 depending on the option selected.

Here are two more examples. If you want to reject all e-mail from a particular person, create a rule to redirect all e-mail from that person
to another folder and create the following mail form on that folder:

   To: $FROM$
   Subject: Re: $SUBJECT$

   I'm bored with listening to you. Please go away!

Or how about forwarding incoming e-mail to another address when you're on holiday?

   To: ms_secretary@joe_bloggs.co.uk
   Subject: Fw: $SUBJECT$

   ---- Forwarded Message ----
   $TEXT$

The $TEXT$ macro pulls in the contents of the message that matches. You also have $BODY$ that only pulls in the body and not the header.


WARNING

Forms are a very powerful feature, but there are some problems of which
you should be aware.

1. Say you set up a rule and form similar to the "reject all email"
   example above. Now imagine that the person you are ignoring email
   from has set up a similar rule and form. The other person sends you
   a message, which triggers your rule, sending a form email message
   out. This then triggers their rule, sending you an email message,
   which triggers your rule. The result is a mail loop, the two systems
   spend all their time sending each other mail. If you do not detect
   and fix this problem rapidly you can expect your ISP to cut off your
   incoming email until you do fix it.

2. Be very careful setting up rules and forms which match the subject
   field only. Say you set up a rule and form to match the subject line,
   where if the subject contains "prices" your price list is sent. If
   your form uses "Re: $SUBJECT$" then the CC of the outgoing mail
   message with your price list in it will also match the rule, so you
   will end up sending yourself mail for ever - another mail loop.

3. You should not create forms using versions of AmEdit earlier than
   v1.04. If you are not able to use 1.04 or later you should use an
   alternate editor.


Summary
-------

1. Forms must have the file extension .afm and must be saved in a Forms
   sub-directory off your main Ameol2 directory.

2. The Forms folder is only read once per session, when Ameol2 is
   started up. If you add a Forms directory or some new forms to the
   Forms directory while Ameol2 is running you will need to quit and
   restart Ameol2 before the changes will be apparent.

3. Valid lines in the header part of the form are:

   To:
   CC:
   Reply-To:
   Subject:
   Attachment:

4. The header and body sections of a mail form are separated by one or
   more blank lines.

5. Valid macros in forms are:

   $FROM$    - expands to the full email address of the person who sent
		               the mail. This is taken from the From: field, not the
            		   Reply-To: field.

   $SUBJECT$ - expands to the subject of the incoming mail message

   $TEXT$    - expands to the full text of the incoming message,
		               including the header

   $BODY$    - expands to the full text of the incoming message,
		               excluding the header

   $INCLUDE$ - used with a path and filename, includes that file in
		               the outgoing message


.topic 886

There are two types of header that apply to Ameol. The first is the header of e-mail and Usenet Newsgroups articles. The second is the information and layout that appears at the a page when you print.

E-mail and article headers contain a great deal of information about the message. This information includes such things as date, message number, the name of the sender etc..

This header information is very important in the context of newsgroup articles. By default Ameol will retrieve only the headers from a newsgroup. This allows you to see the subject line for an article and decide whether to retrieve the full article. You can select articles to retrieve by 'tagging' them. Use the Tag command in the Message menu.

.topic 1212

Hot links are an easy way to reference messages, files, web addresses or ftp addresses in messages.

You can include your own links in messages you write. Either type the link manually or select the Copy Link command on the Edit menu - this will copy the details of the current message to the clipboard in link format, you can then use the Paste command on the Edit menu to paste the reference into your message.

The different types of link recognised by Ameol are:

cix:conference-name/topic-name:message-number

This is a reference to a message on the CIX Conferencing system. Click on the link to go to that message. To go back to the message you were reading press backspace. To open a new message window on this linked message, hold down the Control key before clicking on the link.
You can also miss out parts of the link and Ameol will try to work out what you mean. For example, cix:201 is a link to message 201 in the current topic.
cix:/files:201 is a link to message 201 in the files topic of the current conference. cix:conferencename is a link to the conference called "conferencename" (if you are not a member of "conferencename" Ameol will ask if you wish to join). And cix:conferencename/topicname is a link to the "topicname" topic in the conference "conferencename".


cixfile:conference-name/topic-name:filename

This is a reference to a file on the CIX Conferencing system. Click on the link to download the file. If you are not a member of the conference described in the link Ameol will ask if you wish to grab the file without staying joined to the topic that contains the file. You can also shorten the link in the same way as you can with a cix: link, e.g. cixfile:myfile.zip is a link to myfile.zip in the current topic.


http://www.website.somewhere

This is a reference to a a web site. Click on it in a message and your web browser will be opened and will go to that site. For this to work you need to have an Internet account and have set the path to your www browser on the Browser tab.


ftp://ftp.ftpsite.somewhere

This is a link to an ftp site. It works in the same way as the http: link described above and also requires you to have an Internet account and have configured your browser.


news:newsgroup

This is a link to newsgroup using the readers default usenet server. If you want to specify a news server as weel you can use the news:// format shown below.


There are two other kinds of link which are used on some web pages and can be handled by Ameol:


news://news-server-name/news-group

This is a reference to a news group but using a particular news server. If you click on this type of link on a web page Ameol will open (if it is not started already) and go to the news group. If you are not subscribed to that news group it will ask if you wish to subscribe. If you do Ameol will subscribe to the group using the news server mentioned in the link. You can also specify a message number, e.g. news://news-server-name/news-group:12345.


mailto:someone@somewhere

This is a reference to an email address. Clicking on this type of link will open Ameol and create a new mail message with the address after the colon in the To: field.


file://file-path-and-name

This is a reference to a file.

.topic 887

In Ameol you can choose to ignore a thread of messages in which you have no interest. If you mark a message to be ignored, it means that the subject of the message will turn from black to grey in the message window and any subsequent comments to that message will not be marked as unread.

.topic 888

Import means to get data from an external file and place into Ameol's data structure. This applies to the address book and users list as well as the message database. The import command in the File menu gives options for importing data from a number of sources.

.topic 889

The In Basket shows the structure of your message database. It has folders containing the mail messages you have received and the newsgroups and CIX conferences that you are a member of. Double click on a mailbox, newsgroup or conference to see the messages contained within.

.topic 890

Before connecting to any on-line service, Ameol will initialise your modem. This involves sending a few commands to the modem to reset it before dialling a number.

.topic 891
Ameol allows you to insert the contents of a text or document file into the message that you are writing. To do this, choose Insert File from the Edit menu then locate the file you wish to insert.

.topic 892

The Internet is a world-wide network of computers that use a common language to share information with one another. If you have a connection to this network you can gain access to the data stored on any of the computers that are part of the Internet network.

.topic 893

If you want to participate in a CIX Conference, you need to join it first. There are two ways to join a conference in Ameol. You can select Join Conference from the Conf Menu and enter the name of the conference that you wish to join or you can browse the list of conferences by selecting Show All Conferences. From this list you can click the Join button to join the highlighted conference.

.topic 894

A keystroke or keyboard shortcut allows you to run a command or perform a function  in Ameol by pressing a single key or combination of keys. For instance, if you want to post a message to the current conference that you are reading, simply pressing the 'S' key will bring up the New Message dialog box.

.topic 895

 A local topic is a folder that you can create in the In Basket into which you can place messages. This topic folder exists only in your Ameol database and does not relate to any CIX conference topic or Usenet newsgroup.

.topic 896

Login refers to the information that you need to enter to gain access to a computer. Many servers require you to enter a user name or password before they will give you access to any of the data that is stored on the computer.

.topic 897

In the Ameol message database, you can mark messages in a number of ways. For instance you can place a bookmark at a particular message so that it is easy to find at a later date, or you can mark a message to be deleted during the next purge. These marks are stored as part of your message database.

.topic 898

A modem is a machine that allows you to connect your computer to another computer via a standard telephone line.

.topic 899

The Moderate addon is a program that you can run within Ameol that gives you access to a range of additional actions on the CIX Conferencing system. These actions allow you to perform the functions of a conference moderator such as setting up files lists and creating new conferences.

.topic 900

A Moderator of a CIX conference has control over the messages that are posted in the conference and who can participate in the conference. A moderator has the power to remove both messages and users from the conference. In the case of a closed or closed confidential conference, only a  moderator can join you to the conference.

.topic 901

A Usenet newsgroup is somewhat like a CIX conference except that newsgroups are available from any news server computer. Also, unlike CIX conferences, newsgroup articles remain in the newsgroup for only a few days. This is because newsgroups are global and if the messages weren't purged regularly the quantity of information stored would very soon become unmanageable.

.topic 902

A newsgroup article is a message that is posted into a Usenet newsgroup.

.topic 903

A nickname is the user name of a user of the CIX Conferencing system. Nicknames are chosen by the users and need not bear any relation to the real name of the user. When you want to send a message to another CIX Conferencing user, you must use their nickname to address the message.

.topic 904

An off-line reader is a piece of software that connects to an on-line service and automatically processes commands, retrieves messages and downloads files to your computer. This means that you can read and respond to your messages without incurring the costs of being on-line for all the time it takes to read your messages.

.topic 905

On-line means to be connected to an on-line service such as the CIX Conferencing service. When the connection is established between your computer and the service (usually via a modem) your are on-line. When this connection is terminated your are off-line.

.topic 906

Original (as in message) means the message to which the current message is a reply. Since discussions in CIX conferences can contain a large number of individual replies, it is often helpful to see the original message that prompted the reply.

.topic 907

The Out Basket window shows a list of the commands that will be executed the next time that you 'blink' Ameol. You can edit, hold, keep and delete any item that is in the Out Basket.

Holding an item means that it won't be executed the next time Ameol blinks. Keeping an item means that it will remain in the Out Basket after Ameol blinks so that it can be executed on the next blink.


.topic 908

A participant is a CIX Conferencing user who is joined to a CIX conference.

.topic 909

A password is a word or sequence of characters that is used by a computer to check the authenticity of a logon request for a particular user name.

.topic 910

Pointers (in the context of the CIX Conferencing system) is the set of data that the CIX Conferencing system hold that tells it which conferences you are joined to and which messages you have read.

Pointers are set at just after midnight every day, so if you use the Reset Pointers script you will return to the state that was set for you this morning. Resetting Pointers can be useful if you lose some conference messages from your message database and wish to download them again.

You should note that the CIX Pointers also contain information about the conferences you are joined to. If you join a conference and then reset your pointers, you will no longer be joined to that conference.

.topic 911

Priority has two meanings in Ameol. Firstly you can mark a message in your message database for priority attention. Secondly you can assign an e-mail message as either high or low priority.

To mark the current message for priority attention, choose Priority from the Message menu or press 'P'.

If you want to assign priority to an e-mail message click the high or low priority button on the Mail Message dialog. Note that not all e-mail reading software will detect the priority of an incoming message.

.topic 912

When you log on to the CIX Conferencing system, a sequence of commands will be run that can display information and set preferences. This sequence of commands is held in your profile. You can change your profile to include new commands or delete the existing entries.

You can edit your profile by downloading it via Ameol. Before adding any commands to it, try them out first to check that they do what you expected. You should also avoid any commands that require user input.

.topic 913

A purge is the process by which Ameol removes messages that are no longer required from your message database. A purge can remove messages older than a certain number of days, maintain the number of messages in a folder at a certain level or remove only those messages that have been marked for deletion.

.topic 914

To quote a message means to copy the content of the original message into your reply, but precede each line with a'>' character. This character indicates that this text is quoted.

.topic 915

When new messages are downloaded in Ameol they are marked as unread. As you go through the unread messages in your database with either the return key or spacebar the messages are marked as read.

You can also set the read status of a message by using the Read/Unread command in the Message menu.

.topic 916

Remote Access Services (RAS) is a feature of Microsoft WindowsNT that allows you to establish a remote connection to a server via a modem. The equivalent feature in Windows 95 is called Dial-Up Networking (DUN)

For more details on how to use this feature consult the help file or user manual for your operating system.

.topic 917

When you select Check from the Folder menu, you can also opt for Ameol to repair any errors that are found.

.topic 918

The Repair Log is a text file into which Ameol saves the details of any repairs that are performed on your message database. To check your database and perform any repairs that are needed, select Check from the folder menu.

The repair.log file is saved in the main Ameol directory and can be viewed by using any text editor program.

.topic 919

A reply is a message that is sent or posted in response to an original message. In terms of
e-mail these messages are called replies. In terms of CIX Conferences these messages are called comments.

.topic 920

When you no longer wish to receive messages from a CIX conference, a CIX conference topic or a Usenet newsgroup you can resign them by selecting the Resign command from the Folder menu. When you resign in this way, the messages that you already have are not deleted from your message database, but you won't download any further messages.

.topic 921

A resume is a text file that is held on the CIX Conferencing system that holds any details that you want to share with other users of the CIX system. For instance you may wish to include your address and telephone number, a career summary or just a few thoughts.

To create or edit your resume, select the Edit/Create My Resume command from the Conf Menu. Once created and posted to CIX Conferencing any other user of the system can read this file. Similarly you can retrieve any other user's resume by selecting Show Resume from the message menu.

.topic 922

A scratchpad is the accumulation of messages downloaded by Ameol when a blink has been finished. When Ameol imports the scratchpad, the messages a split out from the file and inserted into the correct folders in your message database.
Ameol stores the scratchpad file it has just downloaded in the Scratch directory of your Ameol installation. Ameol also archives the ten most recent scratchpad files into the Archive directory.

.topic 923

A script is a set of CIX Conferencing system commands that can be added to the Out Basket and run during a blink. These scripts perform certain tasks, such as changing your CIX Conferencing password or resetting pointers. You can choose a script to run by choosing Scripts from the File menu.

.topic 924
Ameol allows you to search your message database for a word, string of characters or an author. To start a search, select Search from the File menu.


.topic 925

When you are using Ameol in on-line mode, the send command will post your current message immediately.


.topic 926

A signature is a piece of text that can be added to the end of any of your messages. Ameol allows you to define different signatures that can be applied to particular message types.

To define a signature, choose Signatures from the Settings menu.

.topic 927

The spell checker is a utility that comes with the fully registered version of Ameol. You can use it to check the spelling of any of your messages.

.topic 928

The status bar is shown at the bottom of the Ameol main window. It displays a number of bits of information about Ameol such as the number or unread messages, the status of an import and the current time.

.topic 929

If you choose to retrieve messages from a particular newsgroup, you are said to be subscribing to that newsgroup. You can subscribe to a newsgroup by choosing Subscribe from the News menu or by browsing the list of newsgroups (Show All Newsgroups in the News menu) and clicking the Subscribe button to subscribe to the highlighted newsgroup.

.topic 930

Telnet is a common software program that allows you to connect to another computer on the Internet.

.topic 931

The Terminal command allows you to connect to your on line service as if you were connecting via a standard terminal. This means that you will have to logon and type all of the commands that the service that you are connected to requires.

.topic 932

A thread is a group of messages that relate to one another. For instance if you post a message and somebody posts a reply and then somebody else replies to the reply a thread of messages is being established. Ameol shows this thread by drawing 'link lines' between these messages so that it's easy to see which message is a reply to which message.

Threads are shown in the top right pane of the message window. This is sometimes referred to as the thread pane.

.topic 933

Timeout is a length of time after which, if there is no response or activity from your on-line service, the connection will be terminated. You can set the timeout value for any of your connection cards by selecting Communications from the Settings menu and then clicking the Edit button on the Communications dialog.

.topic 934

The toolbar is the strip of buttons that runs underneath the Ameol menus. You can configure the buttons that appear on the toolbar by selecting Toolbar from the Settings menu.

.topic 935

A topic is a subject area within a CIX conference. For instance a conference may contain topics for general discussion, announcements and files. These topics are reflected in the In Basket structure.

.topic 936

A tree view control shows the structure of data. For instance the In Basket is just such a tree view control and it shows the conferences, mail and news folders and also the topics held within each one.

You can expand and collapse the folders in a tree view control by clicking the + symbol to expand and the - symbol to collapse.

.topic 937

An unread message is a message that has been downloaded into your Ameol message database but that has not yet been marked as having been read. If there are any unread messages they will be displayed in the In Basket as a fraction of the overall messages held in the folder.

.topic 938

Upload means to copy a file from your computer to an on-line service that you are connected to. If you have a file that you would like to send to another person on the CIX Conferencing system or add to the file list of a CIX Conferencing conference, you will need to upload the file first.

You can upload directly to a conference by using the Upload File command in the Conf Menu, or you can upload a file to your CIX Conferencing mail directory by using the Upload File command in the Mail menu.

.topic 939

Usenet is a global collection of discussion topics that are called newsgroups. The messages in these newsgroups are copied to news servers all over the world and anybody can subscribe to an open newsgroup.

Unlike CIX conferences, the messages in newsgroups are only available for a number of days. This is because of the sheer quantity of messages that would build up in a very short space of time. If you want a complete set a messages from a newsgroup you will need to download new messages on a regular basis.

.topic 940

A Usenet article is a message that is posted to a Usenet newsgroup.

.topic 941

User accounts in Ameol are like a set of alternative settings. You can establish user accounts that use any number of different settings and services. You can also use user accounts to restrict access to Ameol.

To set up a user account, select Users from the Settings menu.

.topic 1227

UIDL is a method of checking what mail is new on a mail server. If Ameol finds it can not use UIDL it will report this in the blink log like this:


Mail server does not support UIDL. Retrieving mail using a slower scheme.


As long as you delete mail frequently this should not cause any problems. If you do not clear out your mail regularly then collection will eventually become very slow.

Select Setting|Mail|Internet to see how to clear your Internet mail.



.topic 942

Withdrawing messages is relatively straightforward with CIX Conferencing conference messages. If you mark one of your messages for withdrawal (you can only withdraw your messages) it will be removed the next time that you blink Ameol.

Withdrawing a newsgroup article is less straightforward. Newsgroups articles are copied to new servers all over the world. To remove an article requires a 'withdraw' message to follow the original.

To withdraw the currently highlighted message, select Withdraw from the Message menu. Withdrawn messages are marked with a W in the message window.

.topic 943

Wrap (or word wrap) is the number of characters that can be entered on a line before a new line is started. Ameol will wrap text at 74 characters.

.topic 1015
Reference

.topic 949


Command Line Switches


Ameol can be started with command line parameters, making it simple to control unattended, using a timer or scheduler.

To use a switch simply add the command to the end of the command line that you would normally use to start Ameol. For instance, if you'd like Ameol to automatically connect to CIX Conferencing when it is started you would add /auto to the command line. i.e.

C:\Ameol\Ameol232.exe /auto

You can also add a username and password to the command line. So if you log into Ameol using the Ameol username "cixuser" and the password "mypass", the above command line would read

C:\Ameol\Ameol232.exe cixuser mypass /auto

The order of command line switches and the username and password are not important.



There are switches for the following commands:

/auto - Automatically connect to CIX Conferencing
/basic - Do not display menu bar
/cix - Open CIX Conferencing conference/topic/message
/cixfile - Offer to download CIX Conferencing file from specified topic
/compat - Specify compatibility with previous versions of Ameol
/config - Same as /setup
/dict - Specify Dictionary Load Mode
/dns - Enable DNS caching
/first - Go to the first unread message in the database after a blink
/lognntp - Log NNTP activity
/logpop3 - Log POP3 activity
/logsmtp - Log SMTP activity
/mailto - Send mail
/news - View/join a usenet newsgroup
/next - Display first unread message on starting
/noadds - Start Ameol without addons
/nocheck - Start Ameol without the automatic database check
/nocmn - Do not colour inbasket folders
/noexit - Override the /quit switch
/nologo - Do not display the startup splash screen
/online - Start Ameol in online mode
/purge - Purge a folder on startup
/quit - Automatically connect to CIX Conferencing then exit
/sagerun - Used by System Agent
/sageset - Used by System Agent
/setup - Run Ameol Setup
/usenet - Specify the CIX Conferencing usenet gateway

.topic 944


Command Line Switch

Syntax:		/auto

This command line switch forces Ameol to connect to CIX Conferencing using the blink settings contained in the Full blink action.
You can change the blink type used by specifying its' name, e.g. /auto="Conferencing Only" or /auto="Mail Only". Note that the name of the blink is case sensitive so /auto="CONFERENCING ONLY" or /auto="conferencing only" will not work.

.topic 1111


Command Line Switch

Syntax: /basic

This switch prevents Ameol from displaying the menu bar.

.topic 1234

Command Line Switch

Syntax: /cix=cix:<conference>/[<topic>]:[<messagenumber>]

This command line switch opens Ameol and displays the specified conference, topic or message number. The basic syntax is the same as that used for cix: style Hot Links.






.topic 1240


Command Line Switch

Syntax: /cixfile=cixfile:<conference>/[<topic>]:[<filename>]

This command line switch opens Ameol and offers to download the file from the specified CIX conference and topic. The basic syntax is the same as that used for cixfile: style Hot Links.


.topic 985

Command Line Switch

Syntax:		/compat=value

This command line switch sets compatibility with previous versions of Ameol. The value is one or the sum of more than one of the following:

1		Use Ameol 1.12 scheme for closing windows
2		Don't skip to next unread message after Ignore or Mark Thread read commands
4		Don't mark messages unread when backspacing
8		Not used.
16		Don't send profile commands for wrap column, recent value and maximum message size to CIX Conferencing when connecting.
32		Don't go to the next unread message after blinking if a message window is already open.
64		Collapse categories when moving from this. This is an experimental feature.
128		Don't add 'X-Ameol-Version' header line to outgoing email.


.topic 1315

Command Line Switch

Syntax: /dns

This switch enables caching of DNS lookup information during an Ameol session. Caching can improve performance slightly but if DNS information changes Ameol will be using incorrect information. The cache is cleared when Ameol is exited.

.topic 1112

Command Line Switch

Syntax:		/dict="preload"
            /dict="loadoncall"

This switch determines whether the spelling checker dictionaries are loaded when Ameol is started, or when the spelling checker is first used. If the dictionaries are preloaded, then this will improve the performance of the spelling checker at the cost of an extra delay when Ameol is started. Since the dictionaries are resident in memory while Ameol is running they reduce the amount of memory available to the rest of Ameol.
Ameol automatically unloads the dictionaries if memory runs very low. It will then reload the dictionaries when and as required.

The default is preload.

.topic 1316

Command Line Switch

Syntax: /first

Go to the first unread message in the database after a blink.

.topic 1114

Command Line Switch

Syntax: /lognntp

Logs all nntp activity to a file called nntp.log in your Ameol directory. Used for debugging purposes.


.topic 1115

Command Line Switch

Syntax: /logpop3

Logs all pop3 activity to a file called pop3.log in your Ameol directory. Used for debugging.


.topic 1116

Command Line Switch

Syntax: /logsmtp

Logs all smtp activity to a file called smtp.log in your Ameol directory. Used for debugging.


.topic 1117

Command Line Switch

Syntax: /mailto=mailto:<address>[?Subject=<subject>]

Opens a new mail message dialog with <address> in the To: field. If the optional Subject section is included it is included in the Subject line of the mail message.


.topic 1118

Command Line Switch

Syntax: /news=news:<group>

Opens a new message window on usenet group <group>. If you are not joined to <group> Ameol will attempt to join the group using the default news server.


.topic 954


Command Line Switch

Syntax:		/next

This command line switch tells Ameol to find and display the first unread message in your message database as soon as it starts.

If there are no unread messages, this switch does nothing.

.topic 1119

Command Line Switch

Syntax: /noadds

Starts Ameol without loading any addons. Useful for debugging.


.topic 1331


Command Line Switch

Syntax: /nocheck

Starts Ameol without running the automatic database check.


.topic 1317

Command Line Switch

Syntax: /nocmn

With this switch set Ameol does not colour mail and news folders. This will speed up drawing of the in basket if you have many folders.

.topic 1120

Command Line Switch

Syntax: /noexit

Overrides the /quit switch.


.topic 1121

Command Line Switch

Syntax: /nologo

Starts Ameol without the splash screen.


.topic 1113

Command Line Switch

Syntax: /online

Starts Ameol in online mode. This is the same as selecting Online from the File Menu.


.topic 1333

Command Line Switch

Syntax: /noolt

Ameol normally times out after 60 seconds of no activity from a SMTP, NNTP or POP3 server. This behaviour can be disabled by starting Ameol with this command line switch.




.topic 1122

Command Line Switch

Syntax: /purge="<folder>" e.g. purge="\ADMIN\Mail"

Purges <folder> on startup.


.topic 945


Command Line Switch

Syntax:		/quit

This switch is designed to be used in conjunction with the /auto command line switch, and exits Ameol as soon as the connection  has completed and any newly downloaded scratchpads have been processed.

This option is provided for scheduled connections via third-party scheduling utilities. With this software, Ameol can be configured to connect at a predetermined time and immediately exit afterwards.

.topic 1123

Command Line Switch

Syntax: /sageset

Used by System Agent, not for user usage.

To use System Agent to start Ameol, run System Agent and select Schedule a New Program from the Program menu. Click on the arrow next to the Program text box and select Ameol.


.topic 1124

Command Line Switch

Syntax: /sagerun

Used by System Agent, not for user usage.

To use System Agent to start Ameol, run System Agent and select Schedule a New Program from the Program menu. Click on the arrow next to the Program text box and select Ameol.


.topic 1125

Command Line Switch

Syntax: /setup

Runs Ameol Setup.


.topic 1126

Command Line Switch

Syntax: /usenet="text"

Specifies the CIX Conferencing usenet gateway used. Only for use by CIX Conferencing beta testers.


.topic 980

It is possible to write scripts that can be run with Ameol that will automatically perform tasks using the CIX Conferencing system.
Examples of such scripts can be found in the Script directory of your Ameol installation. You can add a script to the out basket by using the Scripts command in the File Menu.

This section is not intended to be a complete guide on how to write scripts, rather it is a listing of the commands and functions available. For more information about writing scripts, study the supplied examples, and ask in the ameol_reg conference on the CIX Conferencing system.

The following is a list of script commands.

break
clear
closelog
continue
copy 'filename'
delete 'filename'
download 'filename'
end
endif
endwhile
gettime
hangup
holdlog
if expression
import
include 'filename'
lasterror
log
name
openlog 'filename'
overwrite
password
pause time
put 'text'
put name
put password
putnocr 'text'
record
recover
rem
rename
resumelog
set variable=expression
status
success
timeout
upload 'filename'
waitfor 'text'
while expression

String Prompts
If you embed certain characters in strings, you can make Ameol display an Input or File Open dialog to prompt the user for the information to be inserted at that point in the string. For example, the following line:
put 'mod %c('Add Participant','2')'
displays a list of conferences in a dialog box with the caption 'Add Participant'. The value 2 indicates that only conferences are displayed, not topics.

The following list shows string prompts supported by Ameol.
Conference/Topic Picker
File Open Browser
File Save Browser
Input Dialog

.topic 946

Script Command

break

Exits from a while loop.

.topic 947

Script Command

clear

Clears the terminal window.

.topic 948

Script Command

closelog

Closes the terminal log.

.topic 950


Script Command - String Prompt

Conference/Topic


Syntax:		%c('dialog caption', 'value')

Displays a conference list from which the user can select a conference and/or topic. The value field determines whether the list shows only conferences or both conferences and topics.



Value		Meaning

1		Display both conferences and topics.

2		Display conferences only



If the user presses the Esc key, the entire script is aborted and is not added to the Out Basket. If the user presses the Enter key, the highlighted topic or conference replaces the string prompt.

For example:



put 'mod %c('Add Participant','2')'



This displays a conference list showing only conferences and with the caption 'Add Participant'. If the user selected the ameol_reg conference from the pick-list. then the entire string is updated to,



put 'mod ameol_reg'



This string is then output to the output script file which will subsequently be interpreted by Ameol when it comes to execute the entire script.

.topic 951

Script Command

continue

Repeat a while loop from the start.

.topic 952

Script Command

copy filename << ... <<

Copy all text between << and << to the file specified by  'filename'. The last << must appear at the very start of the last line.

.topic 953

Script Command

delete filename

Delete 'filename' from the your computer.

.topic 955

Script Command

download filename

Downloads a file from CIX Conferencing to the your computer. If 'filename' does not include a path, it will be downloaded to the download directory in your Ameol installation.

.topic 958

Script Command

end

Marks the end of the script file. All text after this statement will be ignored.

.topic 959

Script Command

endif

Marks the end of an IF..ENDIF block.

.topic 960

Script Command

endwhile

Marks the end of a WHILE...ENDWHILE block.

.topic 962


Script Command - String Prompt

File Open Browser


Syntax:		%fo('dialog caption', 'type', 'filter')



Displays a File Open dialog with the specified caption. The type field determines whether the dialog shows any special options. This field should be set to zero.

The filter field specifies a list of wildcards and descriptions which are used to filter the files shown in the dialog. The format of a filter is:'description\fwildcard'

where description is a short description of the filter such as 'Zip files (*.ZIP)', and wildcard is the wildcard used to filter out only those files matching the description. The description and wildcard are separated by the \f sequence.

If the user presses the ESC key, the entire script is aborted and is not added to the out-basket. If the user selects a filename and clicks OK, the selected filename replaces the string prompt.

For example, the following puts up a File Open dialog showing only .TXT files:



put "upload %fo('Upload Document','0', 'Documents\f*.TXT')"



If the user subsequently selects MYREPORT.TXT from the File Open dialog, the entire string becomes:



put "upload MYREPORT.TXT"



If the file is not in the current directory, the full pathname appears in the string.

.topic 963


Script Command - String Prompt

File Save Browser


Syntax:		%fs('dialog caption', 'type', 'filter')

Displays a File Save dialog with the specified caption. The type field determines whether the dialog shows any special options. This field should be set to zero.

The filter field specifies a list of wildcards and descriptions which are used to constrain the files shown in the dialog. The format of a filter is:

'description\fwildcard'



where description is a short description of the filter such as 'Zip files (*.ZIP)', and wildcard is the wildcard used to filter out only those files matching the description. The description and wildcard are separated by the \f sequence.

If the user presses the Esc key, the entire script is aborted and is not added to the out-basket. If the user selects a filename and clicks OK, the selected filename replaces the string prompt.

For example, the following puts up a File Save dialog showing only .TXT files:



put "upload %fs('Save As','0', 'Documents\f*.TXT')"



If the user subsequently selects MYREPORT.TXT from the File Save dialog, the entire string becomes:



put "upload MYREPORT.TXT"



If the file is not in the current directory, the full pathname appears in the string.

.topic 1103

Script Command

gettime

Retrieves the current time from CIX Conferencing and sets your PC time from the information returned.

.topic 964

Script Command

hangup

Hangs up the modem.

.topic 965

Script Command

holdlog

Suspends logging of incoming data to the terminal log.

.topic 966

Script Command

if <expression>

Tests a condition and executes or skips commands depending on the condition.

.topic 1105

Script Command

import filename

Imports filename into your Ameol database.

.topic 1037

This is a list of the keyboard shortcuts as set by default in Ameol. You can change these keyboard shortcuts or add shortcuts to other commands by selecting Customise from the Settings Menu and choosing theKeyboard tab page.

Command				     Keyboard Shortcut
Add To Address Book				Ctrl+A
Bookmark Message				M
Cascade Windows				Shift+F5
Check Spelling				F7
Collapse Thread				-
Comment 						C
Copy Message						Y
Copy								Ctrl+C
Custom Blink						Ctrl+U
Cut								Ctrl+X
Decode Binary Attachment		U
Delete Thread						Shift+D
Download File						Ctrl+D
Event Log						Ctrl+L
Exit Ameol						Alt+F4
Expand Thread				+
Export								Ctrl+E
File List						F
Find								Ctrl+F
Forward Message				V
Full Blink						Ctrl+T
Go To Message						G
Go to the last message 		Backspace
displayed						
Help Contents						F1
Help on Help						Shift+F10
Ignore Thread						Shift + I
View In Basket 						Ctrl+J
Keep Thread						Shift+K
Kill Message 						Delete
Lower Case						Ctrl+Shift+L
New Mail Message 				Ctrl+M
Mark All Messages as Read		Ctrl+K
(can be used for topics, folders
and the full database).
Mark Message for Delete		D
Mark Message to be Ignored		I
Mark Message to be Kept		K
Mark Message Priortiy				P
Mark Message Read Locked		L
Mark Message as Read				R
Mark Thread as Read				Z
Mark Thread (Bookmark)		Shift+M
Maximise Ameol				Alt+F10
Maximise Document Window		Ctrl+F10
Minimise Ameol				Alt+F9
Minimise Document Window		Ctrl+F9
Move Message						Ctrl+Y
Next Bookmark 				F9
Next Priority						F5
Next Root						Right arrow
Next Topic						Ctrl+Right
Next Unread						Ctrl+N, Enter
Go Online						Ctrl+O
Go To Original Message		O
View Participants List				F4
Paste								Ctrl+V
Previous Bookmark				Shift+F9
Previous Folder				Ctrl+Left
Previous Root						Left arrow
Previous Unread				Shift+Left
Print								Ctrl+P
Mark Thread Priority				Shift+P
Properties						Alt+Enter
Quote Message				Ctrl+Q
Read Lock Thread				Shift+L
Mark Thread as Read				Shift+R
Sort Mail from						Q
Replace						Ctrl+H
Resign Newsgroup				Ctrl+S
Resize Ameol						Alt+F8
Resize Document Window		Ctrl+F8
Restore Ameol						Alt+F5
Restore Document Window		Ctrl+F5
Say								S
Search								F3
Show Resume						Ctrl+R
Tag Article Header				T
Tag Thread of Articles				Shift+T
Tile Horizontally				Shift+F4
Undo								Ctrl+Z
Upper Case						Ctrl+Shift+U
Watch Article						H
Withdraw Message				W

.topic 967

Script Command

include filename

Includes another script in 'filename' at  this point in the script.

.topic 968


Script Command - String Prompt

Input Dialog


Syntax:		%s('dialog caption', 'prompt')



Displays an Input dialog consisting of just a caption, a prompt and space for the user to input a response..

If the user presses the Esc key, the entire script is aborted and is not added to the out-basket. If the user presses the Enter key, the contents of the input field replaces the string prompt.

For example:



put 'ffind %s('Fast Find','Find what ?')'



This displays a conference pick-list showing only conferences and with the caption 'Add Participant'. If the user typed in lettuce,. then the entire string is updated to;



put 'ffind lettuce'



This string is then output to the output script file which will subsequently be interpreted by Ameol when it comes to execute the entire script.

.topic 969

Script Command

lasterror

A variable that returns the last error number.

.topic 1106

Script Command

log <string>

Writes <string> to the blink log.


.topic 1101

Script Command

name

Variable containing the CIX Conferencing username of the logged in user. Mainly used with put ("put name").

.topic 970

Script Command

openlog filename

Logs all incoming data to the file specified by 'filename'.

.topic 1107

Script Command

overwrite

This is used with the download script command to force a download of an existing file to overwrite the existing file. E.g.

  download "filename", overwrite

.topic 1102

Script Command

password

Variable containing the CIX Conferencing password of the logged in user. Mainly used with put ("put password").

.topic 971

Script Command

pause time

Pauses for time milliseconds.

.topic 972

Script Command

put 'text'

Outputs the text in quotes followed by a newline.

.topic 973

Script Command

put name

Outputs the login name

.topic 974

Script Command

put password

Outputs the password.

.topic 975

Script Command

putnocr 'text'

Outputs the text in quotes without a line feed to start a new line.

.topic 1104

Script Command

record <filename> <conf/topic>

Records a download to the download log file.

.topic 977

Script Command

recover

A variable that determines whether or not Ameol should prompt to recover a scratchpad on the next blink.

.topic 978

Script Command

rem

Remark statement; the rest of the line is ignored.

.topic 1108

Script Command

rename

Used in conjunction with the download script command, this renames the existing file extension:

  download "filename", rename

The last character of the original file is changed to '0' to '9' until it becomes unique.

.topic 979

Script Command

resumelog

Resumes logging after it was suspended with holdlog.

.topic 984

Script Command

set variable=expression

Sets the value of a variable or pseudo-variable.

.topic 1109

Script Command

status "text"

Outputs "text" to the blink status dialog or the status line if the status dialog is turned off.

.topic 1110

Script Command

success <id>

Indicates an outbasket item has succeeded and can be removed. Used mainly by addon authors.

.topic 989

Script Command

timeout

A variable that holds the current timeout value.

.topic 990

Script Command

upload 'filename'

Uploads a file to CIX Conferencing. The full path and filename for the file must be specified

.topic 991

Script Command

waitfor 'text'

Waits for 'text' to appear in the incoming data stream.

.topic 992

Script Command

while (expression)

Marks the beginning of a conditional loop.

.topic 1016
Program Elements

.topic 993

The Connection Status dialog box shows the current status and the progress of an Ameol blink. You will see the service that you are currently connected to, the time elapsed and the current action that is being executed.



You will also see the progress of any upload or download that is being performed along with the time remaining to complete the transfer of data.

Sometimes, if the on-line service is slow to respond, it will appear as if Ameol has locked. If the animated icon is still moving in the top left hand corner then Ameol is still processing the current blink command. If you wish to halt the current blink, click the Stop button.

.topic 6643

The In Basket displays a tree-view structure showing folders.



These folders contain your e-mail, newsgroup and CIX conference messages organised into the relevant mail boxes, newsgroups and conference topics. Each of these items will have a different symbol unless you have opted not to Show folder type in In Basket in the Preferences dialog box, Viewer tab page.

To see the contents of a mail box, newsgroup or conference topic, double click the symbol next to the item that you wish to view. The message window will be opened with the contents of the item you double-clicked displayed.

You can re-order the folders in the In Basket by clicking on them with the mouse and holding the left button down. Now 'drag' the folder to the position that you like to move it, and release the mouse button. The folder will stay in its new position.

The In Basket also allows you to keep certain folders at the top. Select Keep At Top from the Folder menu to keep the currently highlighted folder at the top of the In Basket list.

To see the properties of a folder in the In Basket, select Properties from the Folder menu.

If the In Basket is not visible select In Basket from the View menu.

.topic 995

The menu bar appears at the very top of the Ameol screen, just under the title.



Clicking on the Menu names will 'drop down' a list of commands.

The menu bar items are:

File
Edit
Mail
Conf
News
View
Folder
Message
Settings
Window
Help



.topic 6687

The Message window displays the current message.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


The message window is composed of three panes.

The message pane displays the text of the current message. When there are more lines of text than will fit on the screen you will see a vertical scroll bar. Use the Page Down key to see the rest of the text.

The thread pane displays the current thread of messages in the topic. You can add and remove columns from the thread window by selecting Show Columns from the View menu. You can change the columns displayed individually (just for the current topic, the default) or globally by holding down the Control key before selecting Show Columns from the View Menu. Columns that can be added include the date, size of message (in kilobytes for mail and conference messages, or number of lines for usenet messages), or you can remove any of the three standard columns (number, name and subject).

To change the column widths click on the vertical column dividers, hold down the mouse button and move the mouse left or right to resize the column. By default this will only change the column width for the current topic, to make the adjustment apply to all topics hold down the control key before making the adjustment.

You can also select how messages are sorted. By default messages are sorted by reference, which means that a "tree" of messages is built up as new commented are added to the topic. Reference order is shown in the illustration above. Messages can also be sorted by number, name or subject by holding down shift and clicking on the grey column headers at the top of the thread pane. If you sort by anything other than reference a small indicator as shown as shown below is displayed in the relevant column. You can also change the sort order by selecting Sorted By from the View Menu.

   Sort order indicator

There is also an in basket pane (if this is not visible it can be made visible by holding down shift and double-clicking the grey vertical bar to the left of the number column). This is a smaller version of the In Basket window.

Various actions can be performed on the message by selecting a command from the Message Menu.

You may also see text highlighted in red in the message window. These are Hot Links. When you see these in an Ameol message you can click on them to go to that message or URL. If you would like to open a new window and go to the specified message, hold down the Control key before clicking on the link.

Message styles turn words or phrases surrounded by *asterisks* into bold, those surrounded by _underscores_ underlined and those surrounded by /slashes/ italicised. This behaviour is controlled by the Message Styles command on the View menu.

.topic 6195

The Out Basket shows the actions that are lined up to be executed the next time Ameol blinks.



This is a Hot Spot image. Move your mouse pointer over the image
and when the mouse pointer changes to the shape of a hand click
the left mouse button once for extra help.


You can delete the currently highlighted item by clicking the Delete button and you can edit messages already in the Out Basket by clicking the Edit Button.

The Hold button will keep the currently highlighted item in the Out Basket so that it is not executed during the next blink. When an item is held, the caption on this button will change to Release. Clicking the button when its in this state will return the currently highlighted item to normal status so that it will be executed during the next blink.

The Keep button will execute the currently highlighted item during the next blink but will not remove it when the blink has been completed. This means that a kept item will be executed every time Ameol blinks. Like the Hold button, the caption of the button changes to reflect the status of the currently highlighted item. In this case the caption changes to Unkeep. Clicking the button in this state will return the currently highlighted item to normal status so that it will be removed after the next blink.

If an item could not be actioned (for example, a news message could not be posted because the news server was not available) a red exclamation mark ( ! ) will be displayed next to it. Ameol will attempt to action the item on following blinks and if successful will remove the exclamation mark from from the item. If the exclamation mark remains next to the item for some time please contact CIX Support.

You can close the Out Basket by using the Close button. To open the Out Basket again select the View Menu, then the Out Basket item.



.topic 997

Throughout Ameol, you can click with the right mouse button to display a context sensitive menu of commands.



For instance, right-clicking in the In Basket will give you the menu displayed above.

Obviously there are far too many permutations to list here, but all of the major commands that apply in the current context will be shown in the menu.



.topic 998

The Status bar is a grey bar that appears at the bottom of the Ameol screen.



This bar shows information about the current state of Ameol such as number of unread messages, import progress and the current time.

.topic 999

The toolbar appears at the top of the screen just under the menus. It contains buttons in which there are pictures depicting the commands to which they relate.



If you leave your mouse pointer over one of these buttons you will see a short description of that button's function. (If you don't see these descriptions select Toolbar from the Settings menu and make sure that the Show Tooltips option is checked.)

You can customise the buttons that are displayed on the toolbar by selecting Toolbar from the Settings menu.

.topic 1038
Ameol was developed by the following people.

Current staff:

Paul Wakeford (pw@compulink.co.uk)
- Ameol Programming, Beta Co-ordinator, Technical Support, Help File and Manual

Mark Simmons (msimmons@cix.co.uk)
- Graphics

Ex-staff:

Steve Palmer (spalmer@cix.co.uk)
- Ex- Ameol Project Manager, Chief Programmer

Yasir Hassan (yas@cix.co.uk)
- Fast Text Search, Ameol Programming

Jonathan Tuppeny (jht@cix.co.uk)
- Graphics, Help File and Manual

Bruce Ure (bdge@cix.co.uk)
- Installer Program, Beta Co-ordinator


Grateful thanks also must go to:

Simon Cleland (scleland@cix.compulink.co.uk)
- Ameol moderator

Richard Conway (rikki@cix.co.uk)
- Ameol moderator

Jerry Ozaniec (joz@cix.compulink.co.uk)
- Ameol moderator

Mac Roche (kestrel@cix.compulink.co.uk)
- Ameol moderator

Stephen Mott (sam1@cix.co.uk)
- Ameol moderator


Finally, thanks to:

All of the Ameol v2 beta and release candidate testers - thank you for your dedication and hard work.


